Title: Document Management and Imaging Toolkit

URL Source: https://www.ahima.org/media/4y1buocf/document-management-and-imaging-toolkit_axs.pdf

Number of Pages: 41

Markdown Content:
Document Management 

# and Imaging 

# TOOLKIT 

# American Health Information Management Association Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

2 | AHIMA 

# Contents 

Foreword ...........................................................................................................................................  4

Authors and Acknowledgments  .....................................................................................................  4

Introduction—Transition to the EHR using Document Management and Imaging Systems  ....  5

Current Landscape and Supporting the EHR  ................................................................................  5

» Today’s Document Management System(s)  .........................................................................  5

» Using Document Management as the Legal Archive  ...........................................................  6

» Record Retention and Destruction  ......................................................................................  6

» Disaster and Contingency Planning  .....................................................................................  7

Document Management Operations and Best Practices  ...............................................................  8

» Discharge Processing  .............................................................................................................  8

» Turnaround Time (TAT)  .......................................................................................................  8

» Scanning Preparation  ............................................................................................................  9

» Document Capture  ................................................................................................................  9

» Productivity Monitoring ......................................................................................................  10 

» Reporting  ..............................................................................................................................  12 

» Staffing During Transition ...................................................................................................  13 

System Design Options and Considerations  ................................................................................  14 

» Document Retrieval, Viewing and Distribution .................................................................  14 

» Workflow  ..............................................................................................................................  14 

» Chart Completion  ................................................................................................................  14 

» Integration  ............................................................................................................................  15 

Implementation and Leadership  ..................................................................................................  15 

» Determining the Information Technology Strategy  ..........................................................  15 

» Clinical Systems  ....................................................................................................................  15 

» Scanning Implementation Options .....................................................................................  16 

» The Implementation Phase  .................................................................................................  17 

» Implementation Team Roles and Responsibilities  .............................................................  17 

» Project Sponsors  ...................................................................................................................  17 

» Project Charter and Scope  ...................................................................................................  18 

» Work Plan  .............................................................................................................................  18 Updated 2012 

AHIMA  | 3

» Conversion Options: Outsourcing  ......................................................................................  18 

» Testing  ...................................................................................................................................  18 

» Training .................................................................................................................................  19 

» The Post-Implementation Phase  .........................................................................................  20 

Case Study:  “The EHRs Impact on Staffing and Turnaround Times: 

Centralizing the HIM Department in a Multi-Facility Environment”  .......................................  21 

Appendices 

» A: Best Practices: Preparing and Scanning Documentation  ..............................................  25 

» B: Document Storage Options and File Size Calculations  .................................................  27 

» C: Bar Code Information and Guidelines  ...........................................................................  29 

» D: Prepping Skill Set  ............................................................................................................  30 

» E: Scanning Skill Set  .............................................................................................................  32 

» F: Indexing Skill Set ..............................................................................................................  33 

» G: Review and Quality Control Skill Set  .............................................................................  36 

» H: DMS and EHR Points of Integration Table  ...................................................................  38 

Copyright ©2012 by the American Health Information Management Association. All rights reserved. Except as permitted 

under the Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, 

in any form or by any means, electronic, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission 

of the AHIMA, 233 North Michigan Avenue, 21st Floor, Chicago, Illinois, 60601 (https://secure.ahima.org/publications/ 

reprint/index.aspx). 

ISBN: 978-1-58426-394-4 

AHIMA Product No.: ONB185012 

AHIMA Staff: 

Anne Zender, Editorial Director 

Claire Blondeau, MBA, Managing Editor 

Jessica Block, MA, Assistant Editor 

Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: This book is sold, as is, without warranty of any kind, either express or 

implied. While every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this book, the publisher and author assume 

no responsibility for errors or omissions. Neither is any liability assumed for damages resulting from the use of the 

information or instructions contained herein. It is further stated that the publisher and author are not responsible for 

any damage or loss to your data or your equipment that results directly or indirectly from your use of this book. 

The websites listed in this book were current and valid as of the date of publication. However, web addresses and the 

information on them may change at any time. The user is encouraged to perform his or her own general web searches 

to locate any site addresses listed here that are no longer valid. 

CPT® is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. All other copyrights and trademarks mentioned 

in this book are the possession of their respective owners. AHIMA makes no claim of ownership by mentioning 

products that contain such marks. 

For more information about AHIMA Press publications, including updates, visit www.ahima.org/publications/updates.aspx 

American Health Information Management Association 

233 North Michigan Avenue, 21st Floor 

Chicago, Illinois 60601 

ahima.org Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

4 | AHIMA 

# Foreword 

This toolkit has been developed to advance knowledge and 

practice of document management and imaging and its role in 

supporting the electronic health record (EHR). 

It begins with the current document management and imaging 

landscape in supporting the adoption of the EHR, continues 

with document imaging operations and best practices, and 

concludes with system design options, considerations, imple -

mentation, and leadership. The toolkit includes one case study 

and eight appendices where more details, including tables, are 

provided to enhance the main content. 

# Authors 

Michelle Charette, RHIA 

Kay Davis 

Julie A. Dooling, RHIT 

Kathy Downing, MA, RHIA, CHP, PMP 

James Foster, MHA, RHIA 

Jennifer Ingrassia, RHIA 

Jamie McDonough, RHIA 

Heather Rogers, MBA 

Blake Sawyer 

Traci Waugh, RHIA 

Patrick Williamson 

# Acknowledgments 

Cecelia Backman, MBA, RHIA, CPHQ 

Jill S. Clark, MBA, RHIA 

Angela Dinh Rose, MHA, RHIA, CHPS 

Barry S. Herrin, JD, CHPS, FACHE 

Sharon Silvochka, RHIA 

Diana Warner, MS, RHIA, CHPS, FAHIMA 

Lou Ann Wiedemann, MS, RHIA, FAHIMA, CPEHR 

# AHIMA e-HIM Work Group on 

# Electronic Document Management 

# as a Component of EHR: 

# Acknowledgements 

This toolkit is based on a 2003 practice brief 

originally developed by: 

Beth Acker, RHIA 

Maria A. Barbetta, RHIA 

Kathy Downing, RHIA 

Michelle Dougherty, RHIA 

Deborah Fernandez, RHIA 

Beth Friedman, RHIT 

Nancy Gerhardstein, RHIT 

Darice M. Grzybowski, MA, RHIA, FAHIMA 

Beth Hjort, RHIA, CHP 

Susan Hull, RHIA 

Deborah Kohn, MPH, RHIA, CHE, CPHIMS 

Amy Kurutz, RHIA, PMP 

Roderick Madamba, RHIA 

Therese M. McCarthy, RHIA 

Pat McDougal, RHIT 

William Kelly McLendon, RHIA 

D’Arcy Myjer, PhD 

Lori Nobles, RHIA 

Jinger Sherrill, RHIA 

Patty Thierry Sheridan, MBA, RHIA, FAHIMA 

Michelle Wieczorek, RN, RHIT, CPHQ, CPUR 

Sarah D. Wills-Dubose, MA, M.Ed., RHIA Updated 2012 

AHIMA  | 5

# Introduction 

## Transition to the Electronic Health Record using 

## Document Management and Imaging Systems 

Document management systems (DMSs) continue to play a very 

important part in capturing all the documentation needed to 

tell the patient’s story. They allow for capture and simultaneous 

access to needed documentation and chart completion and 

provide a central repository of information. While the use 

of paper will continue to decrease over time, document 

management systems ultimately will support the electronic 

health record (EHR) transition. These systems will manage 

paper that continues to flow from the EHR, legacy systems, or 

from external entities to ensure processes are fluid for users, and 

act as a legal archive. 

Assessing, selecting, implementing, and maintaining a DMS is 

an investment. Optimizing your investment and leveraging 

technology allows for cost savings and increased efficiencies. 

During the EHR transition, it is important for the health 

information management (HIM) professional to become and 

stay involved in order to ensure the department’s processes 

and integration points to the EHR are incorporated into 

the project. 

Meaningful use standards (and the accompanying opportunity 

to receive federal subsidies) are driving the adoption of EHRs. 

With the increased use of EHRs, it is more important than 

ever for the information stored outside the EHR to be available 

electronically. DMSs are a vital partner in capturing paper so 

that information can be incorporated into or accessible from 

the EHR. 

# Current Landscape and 

# Supporting the EHR 

## Today’s Document Management Systems 

The terms Document Management System (DMS) and 

Enterprise-wide Document Management System are frequently 

used interchangeably. For the purpose of this toolkit, we will 

focus on DMSs used in the HIM department to enable and 

support the transition to the EHR. DMS simply refers to the 

management of documents, and in this toolkit, we will be 

referring to documents electronically captured for inclusion 

in the health record. 

The DMS is often referred to as the software used primarily 

by HIM departments to handle the clinical and administrative 

documents pertaining to a patient’s treatment. These are docu -

ments that are either unable to be built for use directly in the 

EHR or have not yet been built. These documents are typically 

scanned or acquired electronically post-discharge, but may also 

be scanned or captured concurrent to the episode of care at 

point of service. Other processes pertaining to the DMS include 

chart completion, workflow, and release of information (ROI). 

DMSs are also used throughout an organization to help reduce 

the amount of paper that must be handled and tracked. 

Organizations frequently use the same vendor for all their 

document management needs, not only in HIM, but also in 

areas such as human resources, patient financial services, 

purchasing, registration, and the medical staff office, to name 

a few, but it is the branching out to other business areas of 

the organization that turns the DMS into an enterprise-wide 

application. 

Even as organizations make significant investments in a wide 

range of separate patient-centric systems, there is a continued 

need for DMS. DMS enables capture and access for many areas 

across the enterprise. Multiple locations exist in the enterprise 

where information regarding or influencing patient care can be 

stored in the EHR. Although information can be captured and 

accessed directly throughout these systems, the EHR is typically 

the environment that holds this consolidated information. 

The most important reason for acquiring and implementing a 

DMS is to capture and manage the organization’s documents, 

not to eliminate paper. Documents are organizational assets. 

Organizations must respect the necessity and strategic impor -

tance of managing its document assets just like the organiza -

tion’s data, information, and cash assets. 

Organizations must properly manage documents; their failure 

to do so not only increases liability, but also risks information 

loss that can significantly affect patient safety and quality of 

care. Accordingly, many organizations are forming governance 

committees to identify and establish ownership of information 

repositories such as document management systems. When 

HIM professionals assume ownership of the information, they 

also assume stewardship or accountability for the decisions 

made with regard to information management. When new 

systems are implemented, integrations and migrations occur 

to consolidate data or for decision making when archiving, 

retrieving, retaining, or destroying information. 

It is critical to incorporate process improvement principles 

when working with people, processes, and technology. Until 

the time that all internal and external (that is, outside the 

organization) documents are captured, indexed, and distribut -

ed electronically to the EHR, technologies such as classification 

recognition (such as bar coding, optical character recognition), 

point of service scanning, and work flow enhancements will 

continue to enhance productivity and help to achieve quality 

standards in the DMS. Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

6 | AHIMA 

HIM professionals must be included in the DMS enterprise-

wide strategic plan to ensure that HIM standards of practice 

(including regulatory requirements) are met as the organization 

is crafting its strategy for years to come. The following questions 

that pertain specifically to the HIM department should be con -

sidered as the overall institutional DMS strategy is developed: 

» What are the long-term goals for the following HIM processes? 

» Defining and maintaining the designated record set (DRS) 

and legal health record (LHR) 

- Accuracy, integrity, and accessibility of information 

- Chart retrieval and viewing 

- Document capture 

- Chart completion, including electronic signature and 

deficiency management 

- ROI, including printing and exporting guidelines 

- Coding, abstracting, and migrating to ICD-10-CM/PCS 

- Transcription 

- MPI maintenance 

- Storage, retention, and destruction 

- Downtime or contingency planning 

- HIPAA, Joint Commission, CMS, and other regulatory 

compliance 

- Document management and information obligations 

imposed by health information exchange and accountable 

care organizations 

» How do these HIM processes relate to clinical systems? For 

example, how will verbal order signatures be tracked, who 

will track them, and what impact will this have on computer -

ized provider order entry (CPOE) systems? 

» How are documents created, generated, and transitioned for 

CPOE implementation? 

» What are the organizational goals surrounding decentralized 

versus centralized scanning? 

» How will seamless integration with clinical systems be 

achieved? 

» What HIM requirements are included in the organization’s 

clinical health information systems and how will these be 

incorporated into request for proposals (RFPs) and procure -

ment processes? 

» What plans are instituted to promote physician and other 

clinician acceptance of organization-wide electronic document 

management? For example, will DMS functionality require 

online medical record access and chart completion? 

## Using Document Management 

## as the Legal Archive 

The legal health record (LHR) is comprised of those docu -

ments and data elements that a healthcare provider considers 

its official record of patient care. The “source of truth” or the 

official source system that you will use to respond to requests 

for copies of the LHR must be identified and included in an 

organization’s LHR definition. During the EHR transition, the 

definition will need to be modified as documents move from 

being captured in the DMS to being created or captured in the 

EHR. There may be dual responsibilities for storing the LHR 

where portions of the record are stored in multiple places after 

a certain date if you are unable to integrate historical data from 

your DMS into your EHR. 

With the existence of preliminary and final versions of a 

document, as well as original and corrected information, a 

healthcare organization must address the management of 

document versions. Once documentation has been made 

available for patient care, it must be retained, managed, and 

incorporated into the LHR whether or not the document 

was authenticated. A decision must be made on whether all 

versions of a document will be displayed or just the final, who 

has access to the various versions of a document, and how the 

availability of versions will be flagged in the health record. 

Communication with stakeholders is critical when workflow 

changes are implemented and a document in the DMS is now 

being created and managed in the EHR. As more tools (such as 

interfaces, integrations, and workflow) are introduced into the 

organization, the processes in place and the flow of information 

must be reconsidered to ensure that the process remains efficient 

and information remains accurate. The tools available to manage 

and access the medical record are changing and, therefore, so 

must the approach to working with the new tools. Integration 

tools between DMS and the EHR should decrease the amount of 

manual work required to manage the health record, resulting in 

increased efficiency and accuracy in processes. 

For more information on integration, see “Integration” under 

“System Design Options.” 

## Record Retention and Destruction 

A provider’s records retention policy establishes how long an 

organization should keep documents, the medium in which the 

information will be kept, and where the records will be located. 

Existing retention schedules will likely need to be updated to 

reflect new document groupings when a new DMS is installed. 

The record retention schedule is a critical component to plan -

ning a DMS implementation and works in conjunction with 

the destruction policy (see below). The length of the retention Updated 2012 

AHIMA  | 7

period will determine in part the access, maintenance, and 

migration activities that must be factored as part of the imaging 

system’s ongoing maintenance and storage costs. Those costs will 

continue to accrue for as long as the documents are retained. 

All healthcare records, including those stored in a DMS, should 

be maintained and disposed of as part of a legally accepted 

information and records management policy in order to ensure 

their acceptance as legal documents. Policies should include 

descriptions of how long information must be maintained and 

retained. They should be based on federal requirements and 

the statute of limitations for each state, community practice, 

and accreditation agency. The principles of retention and 

destruction are critical to electronic discovery (e-discovery) 

procedures and the use of electronic evidence. Legal counsel 

should always be sought when constructing or revising these 

policies. 

While there are no set standards regarding how long the con -

verted records should be maintained, destruction of the paper 

should be carried out in accordance with federal and state law 

and pursuant to an approved organizational retention schedule 

and destruction policy. The destruction policy must be clearly 

communicated throughout the organization. AHIMA’s updated 

“Retention and Destruction of Health Information” practice 

brief will provide additional guidance on record retention stan -

dards and destruction of health information for all healthcare 

settings. 

Once a paper record has been converted to electronic media, 

it is standard practice that the paper is boxed up after it has 

been scanned, indexed, and released into the DMS or uploaded 

to the EHR. The HIM department should provide adequate, 

secure space for the retention of these records while they are 

being processed and moved throughout the quality assurance 

and corrections process. 

Organizations should have processes in place to track complet -

ed records and the ability to run reports listing charts that have 

been released to the DMS or EHR within a certain timeframe 

to aid in identifying those charts that are eligible for destruc -

tion (for example, a report that shows all records that have 

been released more than 90 days from today’s date). 

Organizations should have a plan in place to destroy the 

paper-based records that have been incorporated into the EHR 

as soon as possible. The case can be made for destroying the 

paper when users have confidence and trust that the informa -

tion has passed the quality assurance process, was properly 

converted and readily available in the DMS. 

## Disaster and Contingency Planning 

Preparing for disaster is a must whether it is a natural disas -

ter such as a flood or earthquake, a man-made disaster such 

as theft or terrorism, or an unintended man-made disaster 

such as an “error and omission” or fire due to a faulty system. 

Developing a business continuity plan (BCP) is the overarch -

ing approach to business recovery; the BCP generally contains 

individual plans for restoring departments back to business 

quickly after any type of interruption that disrupts normal 

healthcare operations. 

A downtime or contingency plan focuses on sustaining a busi -

ness function during short interruptions that are not classified 

as a disaster. Downtime may be planned or unplanned and 

both scenarios must include alternative ways of conducting 

business during this time. When creating a contingency plan, 

management must consider the following: 

» Identify personnel responsible for each portion of the con -

tingency plan, and include a list of duties for the staff when 

systems are down. For example, consider redistribution of 

workload so that all staff perform document preparation or 

other paper-based activities until systems are restored. 

» Determine which applications and computer systems the 

HIM department relies upon in order to function. 

» Identify the criticality of those applications and computer 

systems. 

» Create temporary work-around procedures that will be 

implemented during system interruptions. 

» Decide when and how to activate escalation procedures in 

order to provide continuous patient care and maintain the 

workflow of information for business operations. 

» Decide how data captured on paper can be entered into the 

DMS once systems have been restored. 

» Determine a plan for varying lengths of downtime and how 

staffing will be impacted. Consider differences in operations 

when down time lasts for less than four hours, four to eight 

hours, or more than a full shift. 

» Determine a plan to validate system data for accuracy after 

the DMS is restored. 

For more information on developmental steps of a facility’s 

disaster plan relative to the collection and protection of health 

information, including a sample contingency plan, see the 

updated  “Disaster Planning for Health Information”  practice 

brief. Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

8 | AHIMA 

# Document Management Operations 

# and Best Practices 

## Discharge Processing 

Timely capture of information, whether post-discharge or 

after a patient encounter, is critical. Discharge processing is a 

fundamental process that ensures timely pick-up and receipt of 

health information for scanning. Although this process is not 

new to HIM, this process starts the turnaround time clock and 

drives the entire document imaging process from beginning 

to end or, in the DMS environment, from patient discharge to 

availability in the EHR. 

The remediation process includes tracking, accounting, and 

following up on all discharges (inpatient, outpatient, emergency 

department, and physician office, if applicable) to ensure all 

information has been received. While HL7 and ADT feeds are 

used for various reasons within a DMS, discharge processing 

uses HL7 to facilitate remediation. 

Organizational teamwork should be strongly encouraged 

within this process. For documentation to be readily available 

for scanning as soon as possible after the discharge, an inter -

nal policy that outlines expectations is suggested. Consider 

the case of a patient returning to the emergency department 

(ED) 24 hours following her initial visit and a subsequent visit 

to a nursing floor. If the information from the initial visit has 

not been completed by the clinician(s) in the ED and sent 

for scanning, the patient’s health information is not available 

to the healthcare team, which can create a patient safety risk. 

Thus, a scramble ensues to find the record and have it scanned 

immediately. 

The following should be considered when making process 

decisions: 

» During what shift(s) will the records be picked up? 

- A schedule that lists every day of the week with the pickup 

location and time should be in place. 

- Consideration must be given to heavy discharge times—if 

your highest discharge time window is 5 to 7 p.m., then a 

9 p.m. pickup may be in order. 

- Holiday schedules should be made well in advance with 

anticipation of volume uptake due to increase in discharges 

prior to the actual holiday. 

- Seasonality should also be considered when scheduling 

records pickup, especially during flu and peak tourist 

season(s). 

» How will records be transported? 

- If records are created at multiple locations, will a courier be 

needed to transport records? 

- What security protocols are in place to secure the protected 

health information (PHI)? 

» Is the scanning flow documented? 

- Does your staff know how a chart moves through the 

scanning process from beginning to end? 

- Does the process consider all retrieval needs such as 

coding, chart completion, ROI, audits, and readmissions 

as in the example above? 

- Do you have a procedure in place for scanner downtime? 

- Do you have a procedure for when the paper record is 

requested and needs either to be copied or taken out of the 

department for patient care? 

## Turnaround Time 

Turnaround time (TAT) starts at patient discharge and ends 

when the images are released into the DMS or EHR. 

The first step in calculating the desired TAT is to define the 

parameters of TAT, such as 

» What is the desired TAT to have records available post 

discharge? 

» Will each patient type or service type have its own TAT goal? 

For example, will ED charts be held to a 12-hour TAT while 

inpatient discharges are held to a 24-hour TAT? 

» Will high dollar charts be processed first if TATs are not being 

met? 

» Will emergency department document types take priority 

over loose sheet document types? 

» Will certain discharges be best processed during a particular 

shift? 

Whether document management is performed in-house or 

outsourced, TAT terms can be mutually agreed upon before 

implementation begins. These metrics will assist in prioritizing 

the chart procedure and can dictate the workflow of each day 

starting with the chart collection schedule. 

As a general rule, as part of the implementation process, it is 

necessary to work with stakeholders such as clinicians, depart -

ment heads, and HIM staff to determine their requirements 

and expectations surrounding documentation availability. 

For example, ED records may need a faster TAT compared to 

inpatient discharge records. The targeted TAT goal is 24 hours; 

however, this goal is usually met only following a six-month 

adjustment period post-implementation. Meeting TATs on Updated 2012 

AHIMA  | 9

a consistent basis requires a “Plan-Do-Check-Act” cycle for 

continuous quality improvement. It also requires management 

to closely monitor and improve upon all areas of the scanning 

process (prepping, scanning, indexing, quality assurance, and 

identifying documents that can be computer output to laser 

disc [COLD] fed to your DMS). 

For more information on TATs, see the case study “The Elec -

tronic Health Record’s Impact on Staffing and Turnaround 

Times: Centralizing the HIM Department in a Multi-Facility 

Environment.” 

## Scanning Preparation 

Chart preparation is the most time consuming and critical task 

in the document imaging process. If the process is performed 

correctly and efficiently from the beginning, it could reduce the 

time spent manually indexing. 

The document preparation process is the equivalent of chart 

assembly and loose material sorting in the paper chart environ -

ment. The document preparation process involves grouping, 

identifying, and preparing health record documents prior to 

scanning so they can be captured efficiently. 

Newer intelligent document recognition technologies can ease 

the labor burden and quality issues associated with traditional 

prepping. This technology can be used to classify document 

types and patient demographic information. 

Careful consideration must be given to handling “blank sides.” 

The organization must create a plan and involve the technolo -

gy vendor and information technology in the decision making 

process: 

» Will the DMS capture all pages (front and back)? 

» Consideration must be given to if the DMS technology has 

the ability to delete blank pages or if staff will be trained on 

identifying pages to be deleted? 

» Who will have the rights to delete? 

» In which phase of the process will this be performed? Will 

blank pages be flagged at time of prepping such as page 4 

of 4, caught during the QC process or will both teams be 

responsible for monitoring and handling blank sides? 

» Fee structures with third party vendors must be clearly 

defined. It is critical that capture and charge of blank pages 

be clearly defined and understood in the contract phase. 

For additional information on productivity, see the Productiv -

ity Monitoring section of this toolkit. In addition, for informa -

tion on preparation, capture, and scanning best practices, see 

Appendix A, “Best Practices: Preparing and Scanning Docu -

mentation.” 

## Document Capture 

Understanding and managing the capture process is critical. 

While document capture may be performed using a variety of 

technologies, including scanners, electronic forms, electronic 

transactions, cameras, voice, and video. For the purpose of this 

toolkit, we will focus on scanning and electronic integrations. 

Efficient document scanning can be achieved by utilizing a 

centralized  approach, a  decentralized  approach or a  blended 

or hybrid approach . Healthcare organizations must decide 

which capture model will work best in their environment by 

evaluating the size and type of organization, staffing, technol -

ogy, and other resources that are available to make the project 

a success. 

Centralized scanning  requires that all documents within an 

organization be sent to a central location for document capture 

through high-volume scanning technology. Depending upon 

the size of the organization, documents may be delivered 

internally to the designated scanning location or they may be 

delivered via courier. 

Decentralized scanning  requires small scanners being placed 

at patient registration areas, nursing floors, physician office, 

outpatient clinic locations, emergency departments, and other 

on- or off-site locations. As paper documents are completed, 

they can be scanned and indexed immediately or placed in a 

queue for indexing later. Decentralized scanning allows more 

of the documents to be captured prior to a patient’s discharge 

rather than the scanning being done within HIM after dis -

charge. Registration information such as insurance cards and 

advance directives can be available immediately for benefit 

verification and patient care. Many organizations are using a 

blended or hybrid approach to documentation, using central -

ized and decentralized scanning throughout their facilities. For 

example, although a hospital may have a centralized scan -

ning location in the HIM department to scan post-discharge, 

decentralized (point of care or point of service) scanning may 

be used to capture documentation such as a driver’s license and 

insurance card at registration that may be needed as the patient 

moves through their visit. 

Scanner size, speed, and functionality must be thoroughly 

investigated before acquisition and implementation to under -

stand how the equipment will handle volume and certain doc -

ument types. It is critical to purchase a scanner that is capable 

of handling expected volume particular to the organization’s 

needs and scanner speed and functionality are directly related 

to productivity. It is also important to know the functionality 

of the equipment to evaluate document types for special han -

dling. For example, can the scanner accept scanning of strips 

(such as telemetry) up to a certain length? Will the paper need 

to be cut in the preparation stage? Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

10  | AHIMA 

When evaluating document capture methods, focusing on 

capturing electronic transactions automatically will increase 

the volume of capture at the beginning of the project since it 

involves less labor. Electronic transactions include faxes, those 

documents received via COLD or electronic record manage -

ment (ERM) systems. 

It is important to consider data and image storage require -

ments as planning is underway for transition to a DMS. This 

is important even if the organization intends to use an EHR 

to store the majority of health information because electronic 

storage needs for images can be quite large and will grow over 

time. 

For more information on data storage for scanned images, 

refer to Appendix B, “Document Storage Options and File Size 

Calculations.” 

To enhance the document capture process, consideration 

should be given to the following tools: 

» Patient labels:  Many organizations have policies that require 

placement of a patient label on every page to identify the 

patient. Data elements include the patient’s name, medical 

record number, and other identifiers such as an encounter 

number, visit number, etc. This practice follows best practice 

and patient safety initiatives. 

» Bar coded separator sheets:  Many times form redesign takes 

months to complete. However, scanning operations may need 

to begin before this process is completed. Many systems allow 

the use of bar-coded separator sheets for each section of the 

record as a precursor to complete forms redesign. Inserted 

into a chart during the prepping stage, the separator sheet 

contains the bar code for the next group of documents (such 

as nurses’ notes, orders, and such). This method requires 

more preparation time than bar coded forms, but it can act 

as an interim solution with higher accuracy and speed than 

could be accomplished by manually indexing each form. 

» Forms redesign:  One of the goals of forms redesign is to 

identify and describe the form characteristics required to 

ensure successful form identification when using a DMS. 

Complying with bar code design specifications will ensure 

the highest level of accuracy when using bar code recogni -

tion software. It also helps to identify form characteristics 

required to ensure better accuracy using forms recognition 

features of an optical character recognition (OCR) or intel -

ligent character recognition (ICR) engine. 

- Key points to consider include the following: 

• Each  type  of  form  needs  its  own  bar  code  so  that  it  can 

be automatically recognized when scanned. 

• Form  names  should  be  unique  to  the  form  and  recog -

nizable to the people who will be using the forms even 

occasionally. 

• Any  requirements  for  the  type  of  form  name,  length  of 

name, bar code font, size of font, and such should care -

fully meet the requirements of the DMS and the EHR (if 

applicable). 

» Bar code types:  The best approach to scanning health records 

is to use 100 percent bar-coded forms. The longer an organi -

zation waits to incorporate 100 percent bar-coded forms, the 

less productive the scanning process will be. Although this is 

normally very difficult to achieve at the beginning of a scan -

ning project due to the volume of forms that need bar codes 

and the presence of outside documents that are not consis -

tent in appearance, the process of bar coding forms should 

begin as soon as possible. 

» Code 3 of 9:  Most DMSs support the Code 3 of 9 (also 

referred to as Code 39) bar code standard (see example in 

figure 1.1 below). This is an alphanumeric, self-checking, 

variable-length code that employs five black bars and four 

white bars to define a character. Furthermore, three of these 

bars are wide, and six of these bars are narrow. The wide 

bars or spaces are at least two, but preferably three, times 

the width of the narrow bars or spaces. When implement -

ing DMS using bar codes, it is important to understand the 

bar code specifications, the bar code content, and the issues 

related to bar code placement on the form. 

Figure 1.1—Sample 3 of 9 bar code 

» 2D:  In addition to the 3 of 9 bar code standard, additional 

types of bar codes are growing in use in the United States 

(see example figure 1.2). There has been rapid expansion of 

the use of two dimensional (2D) bar codes in advertising and 

other commercial settings, and we have begun to see applica -

tions for use in the healthcare environment. 

Examples of 2D bar codes include QR codes, which can be 

read by a cell phone with the correct application downloaded, 

or through the use of Aztec bar codes. The 2D bar code 

format has a few benefits over the 3 of 9 format, including 

the ability to store a larger amount of data, direct a user to a 

website, and enabling sorting or finding a particular form or 

page. They also lend themselves to the ability of being used in 

a more demanding environment such as in a clinical setting 

where they can be used on the wrist or ankle bands for new -

borns. In this setting, the format is better suited to a small 

size and curvature of the band when placed on an infant. It 

will be important to consider the next generation of bar-Updated 2012 

AHIMA  | 11 

coding fonts as well as recognition capabilities when selecting 

a document management vendor to ensure that needs will be 

met as the technology evolves. 

Figure 1.2.—Sample 2D bar code 

See Appendix C, “Bar Code Information and Guidelines,” for 

additional guidance. 

## Productivity Monitoring 

The ability to monitor performance is vitally important when 

managing the document imaging process whether the work is 

being performed on- or off-site, by the organization’s employees 

or by a third party such as a document imaging vendor. Setting 

productivity expectations is critical to managing document 

imaging, and the following guidance should be taken into 

consideration when creating productivity monitoring standards. 

Productivity  monitoring starts with being able to adequately 

measure processes. Charts vary greatly in size and image 

count, so assigning a number of charts to a staff member who 

prepares them is not an accurate measurement. Many organi -

zations use inches or weight to measure for performance and 

whether manual entry or computer entry into the document 

management system is used, a procedure should be in place 

outlining the process and recording of numbers. 

With the understanding that every organization has differ -

ent documentation practices, internal processes, approaches 

to technology, and strategic goals, the following (figure 1.3) 

recommendations are provided as a “general rule” to assist 

with creating departmental or organizational standards. The 

figure shows each production step from preparation to index -

ing with corresponding initial rates (typically during the first 

six months following implementation) and final rates (those 

rates at the highest end of the proposed goal). Rates below 

are shown as images per hour (IPH) per person. They have 

been shown to be typically observed for each process. To avoid 

backlog situations, the prepping and indexing rates should 

be closely coordinated. Prepping will typically be faster than 

indexing in the beginning, which is why the initial rates listed 

below show prep at a higher rate when compared to index -

ing. Managers should adjust staffing in these areas to meet 

anticipated volumes and scanning throughput. Also, these 

rates take into account that these tasks are the sole focus of the 

staff member during this monitoring time when the volume is 

maximized. 

Figure 1.3 — Sample production rates 

It is also very important to recognize that scanner metrics vary 

depending upon the size and speed of the scanner. For example, 

larger scanners used for volume scanning operate much 

faster than a desktop scanner used to capture driver’s licenses, 

advanced directives, and such. Standards should be tailored 

to the type and speed of the scanner being used. For example, 

a scanner that captures 2,500 images per hour would have a 

maximum capture rate for volume or batch scanning. 

Indexing programs can also vary depending upon the steps 

involved in the process. The number of required fields and 

processes will affect productivity. 

Quality control (QC)  should be included in every step of 

the document imaging process, from receipt to release into 

the DMS or EHR. A comprehensive and well-executed QC 

program will help to create trust in record integrity for all users 

of the health record, and it is an important component to the 

overall success of the document imaging program. The goal of 

the quality program is to achieve the highest level of accuracy 

through index verification and scan quality. 

The following should be considered when creating QC policy 

and procedures: 

» Consider overall organizational strategic goals when framing 

DMS expectations and results. 

» During prepping, QC measures may include whether or not 

primary documents are included: 

- Are documents in order according to specific prepping 

guidelines set forth by the organization? 

- Are missing information or documents present? 

- Are flags or notes used properly to identify missing parts of 

the chart? 

» Image quality, as well as content legibility, should be reviewed 

while identifying and validating data elements as defined by 

the general business rules set forth by the organization: 

- All pages should be oriented to the correct reading position. 

Rotate any images that appear to be upside down or 

sideways. Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

12  | AHIMA 

- Patient information on all pages must be verified with 

accurate indexing to the patient, account, and document 

types levels. One task may include matching the identify -

ing number (such as account number or medical record 

number) and patient name on the bar code to the remaining 

pages in the batch. 

- Delete any blank pages without information as well as bleed 

through pages. For more on blank sides, see section titled 

“scanning preparation” contained within this document. 

- A process should be in place to remediate the number of 

physical images scanned to the number of images captured 

in the software. 

» While some organizations prefer to conduct QA reviews on 

100 percent of scanned documents, others use a hybrid 

approach including random sampling or a certain percentage 

of documents to ensure accurate document capture. This 

approach should be determined by each organization based 

on what is right for its particular situation, taking risk, 

staffing, and budget into consideration. 

» Note: Some DMS solutions contain the ability to monitor the 

entire scanning process (from prep to release) in real-time 

and are able to provide quality reporting post scanning such 

as number of imaged captures, number of blank pages, and 

such. 

Quality Point System 

Staff can be evaluated using a quality point system in conjunc -

tion with metrics and number of errors. Depending on the 

severity of an error, the employee would be assessed a certain 

amount of points within a review period. Errors such as mixed 

accounts or patients, missing images or pages, overlapping 

pages, or poor-quality images could be considered a critical 

or severe error while blank pages, unnecessary images, skewed 

images, or an incorrect document type could be considered a 

low-impact error. One formula that is used to measure quality 

is the percentage of actual errors as compared to the total re -

cords processed divided by the total cost of operations (includ -

ing staff, hardware, software, furniture, space, maintenance, 

supplies, and such). This figure is then divided by the time it 

takes from receipt of the record to the time it is released into 

the EHR. The result is typically are double digit numbers where 

the higher value indicates better performance. 1 All quality pro -

grams should be reviewed by human resources and approved 

by senior management prior to implementation. 

## Reporting 

Communication through reporting is a vital component to 

managing a DMS. It is important to work with the DMS 

vendor to understand the system’s reporting capabilities and 

to be able to differentiate between the various types of reports 

(standard, ad hoc and custom) and to determine whether the 

organization will incur additional costs as a result of any 

custom reports. Prior to implementation, discussing reporting 

options and capabilities with the organization’s DMS 

vendor will help ensure the necessary reports will be 

available at go-live. 

When evaluating reporting, the following should be considered: 

» It may be necessary to compare the new DMS system to a 

previous DMS system to understand which reports should be 

retained and which are no longer needed. 

» How are reports generated? Can they be produced within the 

DMS application, or are they produced external to the 

application? 

» If reports are generated external to the application, what 

platform is used to generate reports? Is extra software or 

hardware needed? 

» What kind of reports can be produced? Is an internal report 

writer needed? 

» How often will reports be generated, and can they be auto -

matically scheduled? 

» It is important to predefine “pages” versus “images” when 

evaluating the report data. While one person may think that 

a page consists of only one side, another may consider a page 

as two sides. Often, “images” is used where one image equals 

one side of the page. 

Reporting is usually accomplished through the routine 

reporting of information in status reports to key individuals 

and groups. The following reports should be evaluated as the 

organization implements DMS routine reporting: 

Quality Reports: To measure quality output within all 

functions according to the organization’s needs 

» Breakdown by problem categories (such as mixed accounts, 

mixed document, or poor image quality) 

» Breakdown by error severity 

» Breakdown by patient/service type 

» Missing primary documents 

» Overall quality with drill-down ability to the document 

imaging specialist (employee) for each step of the process 

Productivity Reports: To measure productivity in all 

functions according to the organization’s needs 

» Turnaround time (TAT) 

- High level (entire TAT for all functions including prep, scan, Updated 2012 

AHIMA  | 13 

index, and QC) 

- Specific charts or specific document type (such as loose) to 

track increase or decrease in certain areas relating to EHR 

implementation 

- Each stage of the scan process (prep, scan, index, and QC) 

- All with drill-down ability to measure the individual 

document imaging specialist (employee) 

- Criteria could include the following: User ID, total pages, 

total documents, pages per hour, documents per hour, 

average pages per batch and total hours spent performing 

the task. Reports can be generated for scanning as well as 

for indexing. 

» Patient/service type 

Operations: To assist in managing the day-to-day operations 

of document imaging 

» Managing discharge list 

» Courier tracking 

» Quality feedback 

» Chart tracking 

» Change request 

» Destruction notification 

Research: Reports to assist in finding a specific chart in the 

scanning process 

» By account number 

» By medical record number 

» By scan batch 

» By box 

Reporting from DMS document capture system: Reports that 

may be available specifically from the scanning 

application (usually separate from the DMS) 

» Scanning productivity results 

» Index productivity results 

» TA T of each system 

## Staffing During Transition 

For most organizations, the EHR transition will happen in 

phases. The impact on staffing and operations must be consid -

ered, and skill sets need to be assessed throughout the process 

to ensure the transition is successful. 

Staffing concerns for document imaging can be different from 

other HIM roles. All job descriptions will need to be reviewed 

and revised to reflect new skill set(s). Like all HIM professionals, 

the ideal candidate should be able to maintain accuracy, focus 

on attention to detail, and uphold confidentiality, but an imag -

ing specialist also needs to be able to adapt to a production-

based environment, which requires an increased ability to 

remain astutely focused, work independently, and not be easily 

distracted. When recruiting for document imaging specialists, 

reference appendices D, E, F, and G to identify appropriate skill 

set and job description criteria in the following areas: Prepping, 

scanning, indexing, review, and quality control. 

Skill sets should be time-tested during the interview process to 

evaluate how the candidate would perform in a high-production 

environment. The ability to remain focused amid high levels of 

activity and noise distractions is critical to the success of 

the process. 

Cross training is recommended for ensuring continuity of 

operations in the event of a short-staffing circumstance as 

well as for discovering whether others possess special talent or 

interest in certain aspects of the operation. For information on 

one organization’s experience with a DMS implementation in 

a multi-facility environment, please refer to the attached case 

interview, “The EHR’s Impact on Staffing and Turnaround 

Times: Centralizing the HIM Department in a Multi-Facility 

Environment.” 

In addition, figure 1.3 is a scenario showing how to calculate 

the number of staff needed. The scenario assumes the depart -

ment is capturing 3,500,000 images per year. The calculation is 

(images per year)/(images per hour) × 2080 to get the number 

of full-time equivalents (FTEs). It is very important to keep 

in mind that the initial rates and images per hour (IPH) will 

vary depending upon equipment and manufacturer. Before 

determining these rates, consultation with the organization’s 

scanning vendor is highly recommended. 

Figure 1.4 Excerpt from “Document Management and Imaging Best 

Practices to Manage Hybrid Records” Preconvention Workshop, 2011 

AHIMA Convention Proceedings Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

14  | AHIMA 

# System Design Options 

# and Considerations 

DMSs include tools to assist in the transition to the EHR and 

enhance integration. Document retrieval, viewing, distribution 

and workflow, including chart completion, are all important 

components to consider when attempting to leverage current 

technology to boost EHR adoption. In addition, integration is 

critical to achieving seamless EHR integration. 

## Document Retrieval, Viewing, and Distribution 

Retrieving documents will depend on how a DMS is deployed. 

In some cases it could be through the organization’s intranet, 

the Internet, an application on the desktop, or within the 

clinical system. Ideally, access is simple and does not require 

the user to jump back and forth between systems. 

Methods of viewing and retrieving documents should be 

provided on-site in designated work areas or throughout the 

organization. Remote viewing should be provided to authorized 

users in particular to support viewing of documents from 

physicians’ offices, remote completion of records, and remote 

coding or other job functions that may work virtually. Basic 

and advanced search methods should include filters and the 

appropriate security measures to track access and to limit 

access on a need-to-know basis. 

Distribution of information must be managed by the organiza -

tion and should include the following options: 

» Online viewing only for authorized users 

» Online viewing and printing (generally only provided to 

HIM staff to support release of information functions) 

» Automatically fax for authorized users including scheduled 

distribution (for example, carbon copies of ED notes to 

the referring physician, scheduled at certain day(s) and/or 

time(s)) 

In addition, it should be noted that if a vendor hosts or retains 

the images or stores the record for the organization, it is a 

business associate, and the organization would need to execute 

a business associate agreement (BAA) that is compliant with 

the new HITECH rules. 

## Workflow 

Workflow is a critical component of a DMS because it enables 

electronic routing and concurrent processing. Many tasks 

traditionally performed within the HIM department now can 

be performed remotely within the healthcare facility. Workflow 

rules identify how documents tied to the tasks can be assigned, 

routed, activated, and managed through these rules and 

directed to a staff member for disposition. For example, when 

the status of dictation changes from  dictate  to  transcribe  to 

sign  to  signed,  a chart completion workflow rule will automati -

cally update the status of the deficiency system without human 

intervention and simultaneously send a request for dictation or 

review and signature to the physician’s inbox. 

Coding is another critical HIM workflow in that it enables 

records to be distributed to coders’ work queues. Coders are 

then able to perform their work using the EHR instead of the 

paper record. They should be able to route records to supervi -

sors for coding questions, to physicians for coding query, or 

to auditors for prebill review. Coding from the imaged record 

or clinical system creates new opportunities to meet bill hold 

requirements, manage space, and recruit coders. 

The HIM department’s workflow changes significantly with the 

implementation of a DMS. In the implementation phase, HIM 

departments should articulate workflow assumptions, identify 

changes, and make decisions regarding which process(es) to 

implement. 

## Chart Completion 

When converting from paper to electronic records, the chart 

analysis and chart completion processes change. With chart 

analysis, staff analyze records online instead of using the paper 

charts. One of the largest workfl ows in a document manage -

ment system is most often chart completion, and within 

this workflow is the ability to electronically edit (annotate a 

scanned image), sign, add an addendum, and flag or tag defi -

cient documents to electronically allocate a deficiency to the 

appropriate provider(s). 

Electronic signature capability should exist for both scanned 

documents and text documents that are interfaced. Workflow 

rules can direct unsigned documents (scanned notes and dic -

tated reports) to a physician’s work queue either in the EHR or 

the DMS where they can be signed, edited, or an updated with 

an addendum. Updating documents and securing signatures 

electronically automates the record completion process with 

little human intervention. 

Where in the workflow electronic signatures are captured 

and where finalized documents will reside is a fundamental 

decision that needs to be made when implementing the DMS 

and transitioning to the EHR. For example, if the majority of 

the facility’s documentation resides i n the EHR with a robust 

workflow, the organization may decide to capture and index 

documents in the DMS with an upload into the EHR, where 

that workflow is used to complete the record. However, on the 

other hand, if the majority of the documentation is interfaced 

and completed in the DMS, the organization may decide to 

use the DMS to capture, index, complete, and store the health 

record. For more information on the legal archive, see “Using 

Document Management as the Legal Archive.” Updated 2012 

AHIMA  | 15 

As with all functions, policies, and procedures related to the 

DMS will provide consistent guidance to all employees within 

the organization. Policies and procedures should be reviewed 

to ensure consistency with laws and guidelines established by 

federal, state, regulatory, and accreditation (if applicable) 

agencies. Administrative leadership, HIM, information 

technology, information security, quality assurance, and 

clinical staff should be included in the process of developing 

enterprise DMS policies and procedures. The HIM department 

will need to develop policies and procedures specific to the 

document management system. The following are areas where 

specific policy and procedures unique to DMS will need special 

attention and guidance: 

» Corrections:  Policies and procedures should identify how 

and by whom correction can be made. Business rules may 

determine who can access and correct unsigned documents. 

Organizations should develop guidelines for changes made to 

signed and unsigned documents. 

For example, if a document is changed or corrected, typically the 

copy with the error is removed from view within the DMS. 

However, a copy of the original document must be available 

particularly if it was viewable and relied on by clinicians. It 

is important that all staff are aware that these documents are 

available if needed. Workflow should be evaluated for ensur -

ing corrected documents are redirected to the source of where 

the initial incorrect document was created or received. 

• Retraction, reassignment, resequencing:  These terms have 

different meanings and their corresponding action may differ. 

Therefore, it is best to define these terms. 

- Retraction  A retraction is the action of  correcting information 

that was incorrect, invalid or made in error,  and preventing its 

display or hiding the entry or documentation from further 

general views. However, the original information is available 

in the previous version. An annotation should be viewable 

to the clinical staff so that the retracted document can be 

consulted if needed. 

- Resequencing  involves moving a document from one location 

to another within the same episode of care, (e.g. a progress 

note that was linked to the wrong date). No annotation of 

this action is necessary. 

- Reassignment  (synonymous with misfiles) The process of 

moving one or more documents from one episode of care to 

another episode of care within the same patient record, (e.g. 

the history and physical posted to the incorrect episode). An 

annotation should be viewable to the clinical staff so that 

the reassigned document can be consulted if needed. 3

## Integration 

Organizations have discovered that a DMS is a critical compo -

nent when transitioning to the EHR. DMS allows providers of 

all sizes to move to an electronic record with minimal impact 

on clinical areas. As federal regulations such as The Health 

Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health 

Act (HITECH) push for digitized information, document 

management and imaging can be a stepping stone or used in 

conjunction with the best-of-breed systems that create an EHR. 

For this reason, integration points are recommended in any 

Request for Information (RFI) or Request for Proposal (RFP) 

issued related to acquisition of DMS technology. 

There are important technical considerations when evaluating 

integration points between the DMS and the EHR. Refer to the 

table in Appendix H, “Document Imaging and EHR Points of 

Integration,” for high-level considerations that organizations 

can use to coordinate an implementation plan or an ongoing 

maintenance plan for DMS and EHR system configurations. 

# Implementation and Leadership 

Regardless of the industry’s progress on the path to the EHR, 

most healthcare organizations continue to utilize paper-based 

health information. Doing so results in a hybrid health record 

that is partially computer-generated and partially paper-based. 

The goal of a DMS is not only to manage paper, but also to 

manage all of the organization’s documents (computer-gener -

ated and paper-based). 

The following are best practices detailing the key steps in 

implementing a DMS. 

## Determining the Information Technology Strategy 

AHIMA recommends that HIM computer systems comple -

ment the organization’s EHR and clinical decision support 

systems that are acquired and installed in the healthcare orga -

nization. For this reason, asking questions about integration is 

critical to the strategy discussion. 

## Clinical Systems 

Clinical health information systems are used by care providers 

to document the care provided to patients (such as computer -

ized physician order entry [CPOE] systems and clinical docu -

mentation systems). HIM professionals typically focus on how 

to automate the familiar chart components, such as physician 

progress notes, nurses’ notes, graphics, and ancillary notes. 

In the past, clinical health information systems were created by 

clinicians for clinicians with little thought about their impact 

on HIM and other healthcare organization processes that work 

in the background to support caregivers, such as the creation Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

16  | AHIMA 

and maintenance of the legal record and revenue collection. 

Today’s newer generation systems include these supporting 

process requirements. For example, many of these systems 

include the document imaging technology component of a 

DMS because supporting the process requirement of scanning 

paper-based documents remains useful until all physician, 

nursing, and ancillary documentation is captured in a digital 

format at every healthcare organization. 

## Scanning Implementation Options 

Scanning is one type of technology that can be used in a DMS. 

It can be implemented as a stand-alone departmental solution 

or one that integrates with existing clinical applications. Often 

stand-alone solutions are installed in one or two departments 

such as HIM or billing, solving problems inherent in the access, 

movement, and storage of paper documents. 

However, stand-alone scanning systems require implementers 

to consider how they will interact with clinical systems. These 

systems often stand on their own, with little connection with 

other systems except to receive data through interfaces. If an 

HIM department chooses this option, access to authorized 

users outside of HIM should be provided in a manner that 

does not require users to leave the clinical system to view 

information in the DMS. 

Several clinical vendors now include scanning as a component 

of their clinical health information systems, thereby achieving 

greater integration with clinical applications than their stand-

alone counterparts. It is becoming more common for clinical 

vendors to include the breadth of required HIM functionality, 

including scanning as a critical component. 

The decision to purchase a scanning component as a stand-

alone system or to purchase it as part of a clinical system 

should be based on where an organization is on the path to the 

EHR. It should also be based on the functionality provided by 

clinical vendors versus stand-alone scanning vendors. 

If an organization decides to outsource its scanning to a docu -

ment management vendor, technology choices and the integra -

tion with the EHR are very important to the overall success of 

the effort. 

Planning Steps/Checklist:  Once it is determined that the 

document management implementation is moving forward, 

the detailed planning steps must begin. To ensure a full return 

on investment, it is important to complete each step with ad -

equate time for planning. 

In addition, remember to include the appropriate stakeholders 

(users, influencers, key decision makers, and such) in the plan -

ning process. Also include key players on the EHR task force, 

and create a list of others who need to make a decision in the 

planning component. 

There are 11 key steps in the planning process: 

1.  Assembly:  Ensure the record is in optimal physical order 

for efficient processing for records to be scanned. 

2.  Types of records:  Determine where each record type is 

stored and how reconciliation (check in and account for 

each chart, including outpatients’) will occur on a daily 

basis 

3.  Forms inventory/format:  Create inventory with a sample 

of each form considering redesign needs. 

4.  Loose or late reports:  Determine policy on receipt of loose 

reports, adding in order or filing in back of chart, and codi -

fying once entered into system. 

5.  Physical layout of equipment:  Determine workflow in 

HIM department and consider the physical environment 

for scanning equipment and staff. 

6.  Analysis, deficiency, and electronic signature process: 

Ensure that the medical record is complete and that entries 

are timely according to established rules and regulations. 

7.  Paper retention and destruction:  Determine disposal 

procedure for paper documents after scanning. 

8.  Communications:  Ensure that all stakeholders receive 

critical information about the new system and its impact. 

9.  Quality assurance:  After documents are scanned, establish 

indexing and quality control. Indexing is performed to 

assign document names and encounter numbers to each 

document. It is recommended that quality be performed 

on 100 percent of images to review the quality of scanned 

images. In addition to this initial quality control, ongoing 

quality monitoring should be performed on a random basis. 

10.  Policy and procedures:  Develop new policies and proce -

dures. Adapt existing policies to new processes related to 

changes in workflow, access, storage and retention, and 

such. 

11.  Legal considerations:  The information stored is the entity’s 

business record (in healthcare, the legal record). A plan to 

house this information on media other than paper must be 

scrutinized by legal counsel to ensure that the technology 

being considered can comply with federal and state laws, 

requirements for licensure, and credentialing, along with 

operational needs and that it is consistent with existing 

policies and procedures. There should also be a risk man -

agement component of the analysis to ensure that there 

will be no compromise to patient care and that documents 

required for lawsuits remain available. This latter consid -

eration may impact an organization’s decision on how to 

proceed with storage and retrieval of documents already 

scanned into the DMS. Updated 2012 

AHIMA  | 17 

## The Implementation Phase 

In the implementation phase, the real work begins. Establishing 

a project management team, solidifying work plans and creat -

ing a management reporting methodology for the implementa -

tion will be accomplished during this phase. Workflow will be 

redesigned and decisions will be made based on input from the 

HIM department and the vendor’s project management team. 

During the process, many workflows and schematics will be 

designed and redesigned. Finally, the implementation phase 

will include testing, training, and the system going live. 

Project Management:  A strong project management team and 

plan will help ensure a smooth and successful transition to a 

DMS. This section provides resources and guidance that are 

typically involved in managing a DMS implementation. Please 

note that this list may vary by vendor or by organization. How -

ever, it is critical that the organization receive commitments 

from the vendor(s) that their implementation team members 

will support the go-live timeline. 

## Implementation Team Roles and Responsibilities 

Vendor Roles and Responsibilities 

» Project manager:  Manages overall project and the vendor 

project team focusing on scope, time, cost, risk, and quality. 

Works closely with the enterprise project manager through -

out the duration of the project. 

» Application consultant:  Provides expertise in configuring 

the software product to meet the needs of the enterprise, in 

addition to providing the enterprise with support to determine 

how the product will work best within the organization. 

» Programmers:  Provide expertise in coding the software 

product to meet the needs of the enterprise. 

» Integration analysts:  Provides expertise in developing inter -

faces and conversions to meet the needs of the project. In 

addition, provides expertise on the database level requirements. 

» System engineers:  Provides expertise on replacing and 

setting up the software. 

Organization’s Roles and Responsibilities 

» The  project manager  manages overall project and the en -

terprise project team focusing on scope, time, cost, risk, and 

quality. The project manager works closely with the vendor 

project manager throughout the duration of the project. 

» The  enterprise analyst  is responsible for data collection, 

coding and configuring tables, documenting end-user 

functions, and analyzing system reports. 

» Functional area managers  are representatives from the de -

partments or areas that will be using the system. They 

provide area-specific knowledge and are responsible for 

providing input to work processes, test plans, staff training, 

and policies and procedures. 

» The  steering committe e is comprised of executive-level 

representatives from various enterprise departments who 

have a stake in the project. The project manager should be a 

member of this committee. 

» The  interface analyst  performs data collection, coding or 

configuration, and testing for interfaces and also develops 

technical specifications and test plans for interfaces. 

» The  network administrator  evaluates and facilitates the 

network level activities required by the project. 

» The  server administrator  installs database-related software, 

monitors system operations, and performs system mainte -

nance. 

» The  system administrator  manages installation of hardware 

and software required by the project. 

» The  desktop administrator  is responsible for workstation 

rollout required by the project. 

» Super users  provide application support to end users during 

and after activation. 

» Training resources  (training coordinator, trainers) manage 

the training process by determining training needs, 

developing training plans and classes, and performing 

end-user training. 

## Project Sponsors 

Because the implementation of DMS and its components are 

far-reaching in terms of organizational impact, involved and 

committed sponsorship of the project is critical to successful 

implementation. The sponsors of the project are the visible 

champions and organizational spokespersons for the project. 

The importance of their role as key communicators to the senior 

leadership team and clinicians cannot be underestimated. 

Project sponsorship should come from within the senior 

leadership of the HIM, information technology, finance, and 

clinical departments. Sponsors typically have a vested interest 

in the achievement of the goals set forth in the project charter. 

Because the goals of a DMS project typically range from the 

tactical (such as enabling the medical record to be concurrently 

accessed by multiple users) to financial (decrease the cost of 

offsite storage) to technological (decrease the page to page re -

sponse time for the EHR), there usually are multiple sponsors. 

Each sponsor brings unique perspectives to the oversight com -

mittee and can be instrumental in broadening the understand -

ing of the DMS throughout the organization. As decisions need Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

18  | AHIMA 

to be made that may impact the workflow of different constitu -

ent departments, project sponsors should be called upon as 

negotiators who work on behalf of the project team to secure 

buy-in and cooperation with necessary changes. 

In addition, if the organization has organizational behavior 

or change management processes, those individuals or groups 

should be engaged as well to facilitate the adoption of the 

process by the staff and clinicians. 

## Project Charter and Scope 

The project charter is developed in collaboration with the 

vendor and the oversight committee. This document serves as 

a summary of the current environment, defined scope of the 

project, goals and objectives, change control procedures, team 

responsibilities, staffing requirements, project monitoring, and 

escalation procedures for issues or concerns that develop dur -

ing the implementation phase. Although all components of the 

project charter are important, adhering to the agreed project 

scope is critical to keeping the implementation phase on time 

and on budget. 

The project scope is a list of items that will be addressed during 

the implementation phase of the project. This list is utilized to 

define specific deliverables with clarification of expectations 

for each item. In a DMS project, this may include items such as 

which interfaces will be developed, the types of workflow tools 

that will be enabled, and the type of storage solutions that will 

be implemented. There is a shared motto, “if it is not docu -

mented on the project plan, it will not be done.” 

The project scope is mutually determined and agreed to by 

both the vendor and the organization. It also is an important 

point of reference for the duration of the project to reorient the 

various teams working on implementation to the agreed-upon 

deliverables for the project. Failure to maintain the project 

within scope (“scope creep”) can often prolong the duration 

of the project and place it over budget. Out of scope requests 

that are brought forth by various constituents of the project 

are often added to a future considerations list. This list is often 

used post-implementation to determine needed enhancements 

to the end product. 

## Work Plan 

The project work plan is used to guide the execution of the 

project. The work plan identifies tasks to be completed as a 

part of the project and assigns resources to those tasks. In 

addition, the work plan includes hours and durations estimated 

to complete tasks, as well as the sequencing of the tasks. 

The major phases of the system development life cycle (SDLC) 

is the traditional way to plan and implement an information 

system in an organization. The major phases of the cycle are 

planning, analysis, design, implementation, and maintenance. 

## Conversion Options: Outsourcing 

In preparing for implementation, the healthcare organiza -

tion must consider its options for converting existing files and 

evaluating the staff resources available. Outsourcing may be a 

consideration for the conversion process as well as providing 

day-forward scanning on site. 

Many organizations decide to contract with a document imag -

ing vendor to assist with processing of any scanning backlog 

prior to the go-live date. While some organizations decide to 

use their own staff for day-forward scanning, others decide to 

totally outsource the entire scanning function including staff. 

The agreement with a scanning vendor should encompass 

technology and staffing for document imaging services 24 

hours a day, every day. Some organizations decide to house the 

vendor’s employees on site, while others decide to transport 

documents to a centralized vendor location. 

## Testing 

Prior to going live, proactive steps should be taken to test the 

DMS thoroughly. Testing should be directed toward identify -

ing and addressing any configuration problems, errors, bugs in 

the software, or user errors. Use a plan to ensure that the DMS 

is tested in the manner for which it is intended to be used by 

staff. Although the vendor may anticipate many scenarios, it is 

impossible to identify every possible scenario that the organi -

zation may encounter. The plan should include exactly what 

will be tested and who will be responsible. Testing is beneficial 

because it: 

1.  Mirrors the actual production system 

2. Can be done repeatedly in order to operate without failure 

3. Can be done comprehensively as per design 

4.  Can be done by super-users who will be familiar with IT 

issues 

5. Allows users to play an important role in testing the system. 

Note: The criteria for acceptance testing should be agreed to in 

the contract prior to its execution. Updated 2012 

AHIMA  | 19 

## Training 

Training users and the leadership team is a crucial step in the 

implementation of a DMS. A well-designed training program 

or plan will: 

» Improve the chance of the DMS being properly implemented, 

» Improve users’ attitudes and behaviors toward the changes 

created by the DMS, and 

» Make a key contribution toward a successful conversion to a 

DMS. 

A training plan should identify: 

» Who will be trained (users, end users, and leadership team) 

» What is being covered 

» How they are going to be trained (materials, handouts, 

lecture, slides, and such.) 

» In what format they will be trained (classroom, distance 

education, etc.) 

» When they are going to be trained (timeline, length of 

session) 

» How often training will occur (initial, retrain, refresh, or 

annual) 

» Costs of additional or follow-up training. 

DESCRIPTION 

## Target Audience  • Identify  who  is  going  to  be  trained  (leadership  and  end  users). 

• Understanding  the  role  of  the  user  and  their  skill  level  helps  prepare  the  trainer  and 

can provide assistance when answering questions. 

## Course/Class Description  • The  goals  and  objectives  of  the  classes  must  be  clear  and  well-defined. 

• The  objectives  assist  the  trainer  in  developing  the  program  content. 

## Trainer/s  • Technical  people  should  not  be  trainers.  Use  a professional  trainer  who  knows  how  to 

educate and understands adult learning techniques, learning styles, and the psycho -

logical factors that impact users’ perceptions and their ability to learn. 

• A train-the-trainer  plan  may  be  advantageous  when  preparing  to  provide  training  on 

various shifts. The plan provides the assistance of additional trainers, which is effective 

when providing many training classes to a large number of staff. 

## Training Setting  • The  training  environment  must  contribute  to  the  learning  process  by  making  sure  that 

the users are physically, socially, and psychologically comfortable. 

• A computer  training  room  is  a plus. 

• Some  training  may  be  done  by  a distance  education  option  to  allow  training  at  the 

employee’s convenience whether they are on-site or remote staff. 

## Schedule/Class Duration  • Numerous  applications  will  increase  the  amount  of  time  required  for  training.  This 

means that users need to spend more time in class and away from their work responsi -

bilities. 

• Training  sessions  should  be  as  close  to  the  go-live  date  as  possible.  Shorter,  more 

frequent classes may improve the amount of information users can absorb at one time 

and improve the ability to schedule staffing coverage. 

• If  training  is  to  be  provided  during  work  hours,  a strategy  will  need  to  be  developed 

for backfilling staff and clinicians while they attend the training. Considerations also 

include whether these positions need to be covered by other staff, if clinicians need 

to alter their schedules, and if training is provided in the evenings or on weekends to 

avoid or minimize schedule disruptions. 

• Ongoing  training  and  support  after  go-live.  Users  will  have  additional  questions  and 

need support after they have had hands-on experience with the system. 

# Training Plan Outline Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

20  | AHIMA 

DESCRIPTION 

## Training Aids  • Keep  in  mind  adult  learning  principles  and  styles  when  creating  educational  materials. 

The trainer may find that using the computer along with a workbook with procedure 

steps is helpful. Handouts, reference aids, and storyboards from the vendor can be 

helpful. 

## Evaluate  • Determine  whether  to  give  the  users  a written  exam  or  a practical  evaluation.  Evalua -

tion of the training technique provides feedback regarding the users’ reaction and the 

trainers’ abilities. Post testing after training is an effective way to measure users’ skills 

and knowledge. The evaluation also provides feedback regarding the ability of the users 

to transfer and apply skills and knowledge learned in training to actual work setting. 

## Follow-up  • Follow-up  during  the  first  go-live  will  immediately  help  the  users  with  the  transfer  of 

knowledge learned in training to the real environment. This will also provide an op -

portunity to communicate any changes that have occurred during the period between 

the training and go-live. 

## Ongoing Training  • Training  is  ongoing.  Training  does  not  end  once  the  DMS  is  in  production.  New 

employees, new releases, new policies and procedures will create the need to review and 

redefine training continuously. 

• Annual  training  should  be  conducted  as  a refresher  and  place  where  new  ideas  or 

processes can be shared. 

Ensure that training and user manuals are readily available. One option is to have an electronic format of the manuals residing on 

the healthcare organization’s intranet for easy access. 

Note: The training budget and expectations should be agreed 

to in the contract prior to its execution. 

## The Post-Implementation Phase 

The DMS is live and operational and the organization is one 

step closer to a complete EHR. In the post-implementation 

phase, workflows will be refined, revisions will be made to 

staffing and skill sets, and the process of reviewing documents 

will increase. Newly created file space will require management 

decisions while the project team determines how to provide 

ongoing training and maintenance of the system. Finally, to 

ensure the organization realizes the return on investment and 

benefits promised by the DMS, take time to measure your 

success. Vendor expectations in the post-implementation 

environment, including costs for additional services and 

support, must be clearly defined. Updated 2012 

AHIMA  | 21 

## Case study based on interview with Suzanne 

## Layne, RHIT, corporate director of health 

## information management service at Main 

## Line Health, February 2012 

Suzanne Layne, RHIT, is the corporate director of health 

information management services for Main Line Health, a 

multi-entity health system in suburban Philadelphia. She has 

held several director positions in California and Pennsylvania 

during her 25-year HIM career. Layne is an integral partici -

pant in enterprise record management and revenue cycle 

management. She is a key member of the RAC committee, IT 

steering committee, and patient safety and quality committee. 

Layne has successfully installed multiple EMR systems and has 

consolidated five hospitals’ HIM services into a centralized, 

off- site location. An RHIT with a bachelor of science degree in 

technical management, Layne is currently completing a 

Master’s of Leadership Development degree at Penn State. 

## Introduction 

Main Line Health in suburban Philadelphia is an integrated 

healthcare delivery system made up of five hospitals—four 

acute care hospitals and one inpatient rehabilitation facility. 

Two years ago, Main Line Health went live on an electronic 

(HIM) module, brought their legal health record online, and 

moved to a centralized, integrated model for managing their 

HIM functions. 

## System Design and Standardization 

## Across Facilities 

Main Line’s goal with system design was to build once and 

deploy the model across all facilities. One of their strategies was 

to keep document indexing to a minimum. The acute facilities 

and the rehabilitation facility met to discuss how to standard -

ize forms across facilities. Discussions included decisions like 

“a progress note is a progress note no matter which facility 

this is for.” Main Line started out with 28 document types for 

scanning as part of this process. Two years later they have 30 

scanned document types across all facilities. 

Main Line also plans to implement the ability to capture the 

patient’s signature directly onto an electronic form such as a 

consent form. One of the biggest challenges to implement -

ing this feature is the variety of patient forms in the ambula -

tory settings. Many physicians have their own special sheet of 

discharge instructions for the patient to sign. Main Line’s goal 

is to standardize these forms, have them electronically signed, 

and make them viewable via a patient portal. 

Main Line’s plan is to have more documents electronically fed 

into their document management system and thus decrease the 

scanned paper over time. Right now, about 40 percent of the 

patient’s record is scanned. Their goal is to have no more than 

10 percent of documents scanned as more systems are set up to 

feed their document management system electronically. 

All documentation is now online including the forms inven -

tory. The forms inventory used to be kept in big binders which 

got out of order and would often disappear. Now an online 

spreadsheet houses the information and includes cross refer -

ences to ease searching. The actual forms are scanned and 

attached to the spreadsheet so staff can bring up the form. The 

forms spreadsheet is kept in a shared drive for all employees to 

access—no printing allowed! Everyone has grown to like the 

electronic solution. 

## Staffing Model 

Main Line previously had one HIM manager at each facility for 

a total of five managers. As part of th eir centralization, these 

managers moved from their facilities to a central location and 

became specialized by function rather than by facility. The goal 

of centralization was to ensure that everyone had a job and was 

on board with the transition. Since the transition, one manager 

has resigned and the centralized HIM department now has one 

director and four managers. 

The four managers are now organized by function (for ex -

ample, transcription, record processing and storage, and release 

of information) rather than by facility. Managers still maintain 

a liaison role with the campus that they came from, but their 

focus is now a function-based role. The fifth manager position 

will be filled with a supervisor position focusing on release 

of information around ARRA, patient portal, and regulatory 

needs. Supervisors are also function-based rather than site-

based. Managers’ offices are at the centralized facility but they 

spend one to two days per week visiting their campuses. Super -

visors are on site at each facility. 

Part of the move to paperless records includes getting the staff 

to recognize that the HIM department of the future needs to 

be more technologically savvy. Main Line Health is striving 

to get everyone to function using as little paper as possible. 

Layne, the HIM director, has implemented paperless tools with 

her staff. For example, employees use an Excel spreadsheet to 

submit their time, coders clock time elect ronically, and vaca -

tion requests are electronic. Additionally, in their document 

imaging system, coding and HIM work queues are electronic— 

no stacks of paper charts waiting to be processed— charts are 

online. The staff is encouraged to use critical thinking in a 

virtual flow. 

# The EHR’s Impact on Staffing and Turnaround Times: 

# Centralizing the HIM Department in a Multi-Facility Environment Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

22  | AHIMA 

The staff was centralized in two phases. Anyone who did 

prepping and scanning was moved to the centralized facility 

in phase one. Managers, analysts, and release of information 

staff moved to the centralized facility in phase two. Coders and 

transcriptionists were moved home except for two coders who 

chose to work on-site. The coding supervisory team is located 

at the centralized location to facilitate meetings and ICD-10 

planning. 

There are two pay grades for employees who are responsible for 

getting the medical record online. Data processing technicians 

are responsible for document preparation, filing and scanning 

loose sheets, sending paper records to storage, and high vol -

ume scanning. Additionally, data quality control technicians 

are responsible for data integrity, quality control, and making 

sure that loose material is filed correctly in the chart. Staff in the 

HIM department at Main Line Health is structured to work in a 

job description below their current job but not above it. Qual -

ity control technicians must be able to prep and scan, but data 

processing technicians are not expected to do quality control. 

## Communication and Training 

Communication was even more important than the project 

team thought it was going to be. Nursing was notified that the 

paper was going away. After go-live the HIM staff still got calls 

for charts and it took a long time for the clinical staff to realize 

that the legal medical record now resided in the document 

management system. While there were delayed learning curves 

in some areas, the HIM department reported through the chief 

medical officer at the time of the transition, so the team had 

great physician support. For physicians who had been practicing 

for a long time and who were resistant to giving up their paper 

charts, the HIM staff did one-on-one training. 

The management team also found it was very important to 

communicate early and often with the HIM team to ease 

unrest and answer questions. Looking back, managers realized 

they should have had more formal communications early on. 

Later in the program they implemented a newsletter titled  On 

the Same Page , which helped to keep the staff informed. 

Main Line did not want to reduce or eliminate staff with their 

move to the online health record. Everyone got a job in the new 

structure and 94 percent of the staff got the job they wanted. 

Also, new positions were created as part of the centralization. 

An assistant system administrator position was created at each 

facility since the HIM managers were all located at the central 

offices. Additionally, two lead positions were created at the 

central location—one over document processing and one over 

quality control. 

The staff was given homework assignments to help with their 

scanning education. Two weeks of homework was assigned 

before go-live. Staff was asked to scan inpatient and outpatient 

test batches. In addition to training the team, the homework 

did uncover some unexpected backend workflow issues. For 

example, a lot of forms were not bar coded in the behavioral 

health center and discharges were not being sent over in a 

timely manner. The goal was to scan all paper 24 to 48 hours 

post discharge. 

Since the go-live of the new system, many of the staff have 

shown a renewed interest in returning to school and learning 

new technology. Staff benefits include tuition reimbursements 

and ability to participate in satellite classrooms. Main Line 

Health has established a relationship with higher education 

schools in their area, and they are able to provide their staff 

with continuing education opportunities right at their facility. 

## Storage and Destruction of Paper Records 

Main Line Health’s policy is to store the paper record for six 

months after the quality control process for the online record 

is complete. Main Line Health would like to reduce the length 

of time they retain paper to 90 days eventually. The director 

of safety and risk, in-house legal counsel, and the compliance 

officer do not feel that the HIM staff is ready for this yet. One 

challenge that the HIM department is still trying to overcome 

is improving scanning reliability. For some employees, a 100 

percent quality check of scanned images is still needed while 

for other employees a sampling or spot check is sufficient. The 

goal is to be able to move to a sample quality check for all 

scanning specialists. 

Once the paper has been scanned it is shipped to a short-term 

storage facility located at one of the Main Line properties. Ev -

ery month a truck comes to this property and shreds any paper 

that is seven months old or older. 

Main Line Health chose not to back-scan paper records prior 

to the implementation of their document imaging system. 

They have a separate off-site storage facility for the legal medi -

cal records that are still in paper form. 

## Benefits of Centralization and Online Records 

The biggest benefits that Main Line Health realized with their 

move to an online record were reclaimed real estate and the 

cross training of teams. 

Main Line Health’s centralized HIM department is now housed 

in an off-site facility that is much less costly than the previous 

real estate each HIM department occupied at the individual 

Main Line Health facilities. That unoccupied real estate at the Updated 2012 

AHIMA  | 23 

healthcare facilities has quickly been spoken for. One facility 

has been able to build a large expansion to their outpatient car -

diology services area due to the HIM department moving out. 

There is now more parking for patients at each facility since 

HIM staff have moved off-site. 

Also, moving 10,000 square feet of HIM space out of the care -

givers’ area to real estate that does not need to be accredited by 

the Department of Health (since no care is given), has been a 

huge cost savings for the healthcare institution. In addition, the 

centralization of the team has led to a further cost savings due 

to a reduction in equipment needed. For example, only one 

supply cabinet is needed, and the team is able to share supplies 

such as toner, paper, and rubber bands where previously these 

had to be maintained for each facility. 

With all HIM resources in one location, Main Line Health 

has been able to standardize jobs across facilities. The oldest 

records are scanned first, no matter from which facility. This 

allows staff to get all documents scanned within 24 to 36 hours 

of the record’s arrival at the central facility. Records arrive first 

thing in the morning from each of the sites. Every day a courier 

delivers yesterday’s inpatient discharges along with records of 

outpatient and emergency room visits. More than 95 percent 

of yesterday’s records arrive in that one delivery, so the HIM 

department no longer gets a delivery later in the day. Each site’s 

records are color coded so that staff can tell from which facility 

a record originated. HIM staff is organized into functional 

teams by color, and each team has a team captain. Team 

captains are rotated between teams and also given 

some supervisory responsibility and encouraged to promote 

collaborative spirit across teams. With this approach, Layne has 

found that her teams are now starting to self-correct issues and 

are realizing when to ask for assistance from a leader. 

## Improved Metrics 

Another area where Main Line Health has enjoyed huge im -

provements is in HIM department metrics. Analysis time has 

decreased significantly across all facilities. Before centralization, 

one site had pretty good turnaround times—about three to five 

days. Another facility struggled with 10-day turnaround times 

and yet another averaged between 15 and 23 days. Now all 

records from all facilities are scanned into the system within 24 

to 36 hours and have undergone analysis within 48 hours. Four 

staff members monitor and maintain the analysis and reanaly -

sis queues for all five facilities. Physicians receive records to 

complete within two to three days of discharge. Dictations now 

flow in real time—they are available on the physician’s online 

work-list as soon as they are dictated. Due to the real-time 

dictations, by the time records reach analysis, a large percent of 

chart deficiencies are already complete. 

Prior to implementing their online medical record, Main Line 

Health’s chart delinquency rates were in the high 20 to low 30 

percent range. Delinquency rates are now in the two to four 

percent range. In addition to faster analysis turnaround times, 

deficiency letters are e-mailed to physicians so they receive 

them more quickly. Online medical records are available any -

where, anytime, so records can be completed remotely. Physi -

cians can access their records from the floor if they have a few 

minutes between cases or even when they are on vacation. 

Overall, Main Line Health has seen many benefits to imple -

menting one electronic medical record across all facilities and 

centralizing HIM operations. They have reclaimed real estate 

to be used for patient care, cross-trained their staff and their 

management team, recognized economies of scale in one 

department for all five facilities, and have greatly improved 

their department metrics. But perhaps their biggest gain is the 

collaborative spirit and the insight into planning for the future 

of the ever-changing healthcare environment. 24  | AHIMA 

# Document Management and Imaging Toolkit 

## Notes 

1.  IOD Incorporated. “Improving Outcomes in Document 

Imaging and Conversion: New Methodologies to Measure 

Scan Capture Performance in HIM.” 2011. Available at www. 

iodincorporated.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/ 

FINAL-QPI-WHITE-PAPER-11-8-11.pdf. 

2.  AHIMA. “Amendments in the Electronic Health Record 

Toolkit.” 2012. Available at www.ahima.org. 

## References 

AHIMA. “Managing the Transition from Paper to EHRs.” 

(Updated November 2010.) Available in the HIM Body of 

Knowledge at www.ahima.org. 

AHIMA. “Migrating from Paper to EHRs in Physician Practices.” 

Journal of AHIMA  81, no.11 (November–December 2010): 60-

64. Available in the HIM Body of Knowledge at www.ahima. 

org. 

AHIMA.  Pocket Glossary of Health Information Management 

Technology.  3rd ed. Chicago, IL: AHIMA Press, 2012. 

AHIMA. “Retention and Destruction of Health Information.” 

Updated August 2011. Available in the HIM Body of Knowl -

edge at www.ahima.org. 

AHIMA e-HIM Work Group on Electronic Document 

Management as a Component of EHR. “Electronic Document 

Management as a Component of the Electronic Health Record 

(AHIMA Practice Brief).” October 2003. Available in the HIM 

Body of Knowledge at www.ahima.org. 

AHIMA Task Force on Healthcare Quality and Patient Safety 

“HIM Functions in Healthcare Quality and Patient Safety.” 

Journal of AHIMA  82, no. 8 (Aug 2011): 42–45. Available in the 

HIM Body of Knowledge at www.ahima.org. 

Amatayakul, Margaret K.  Electronic Health Records: A Practical 

Guide for Professionals and Organizations.  4th ed. Chicago, IL: 

AHIMA Press, 2009. 

Brodnik, Melanie S., Mary Cole McCain, Laurie A. Rinehart-

Thompson, and Rebecca B. Reynolds.  Fundamentals of Law for 

Health Informatics and Information Management.  Chicago, IL: 

AHIMA Press, 2009. 

Dooling, Julie. “Managing Records between the EDMS and 

EHR: Monitoring, Evaluating, and Redesigning Workflows.” 

Journal of AHIMA  82, no. 2 (February 2011): 38–39. 

Johns, Merida.  Health Information Management Technology: An 

Applied Approach.  3rd ed. Chicago, IL: AHIMA Press, 2011. 

LaTour, K.L., and S.E. Eichenwald Maki.  Health Information 

Management: Concepts, Principles, and Practice.  3rd ed. 

Chicago, IL: AHIMA Press, 2010. 

Rinehart-Thompson, Laurie A. “Record Retention Practices 

among the Nation’s ‘Most Wired’ Hospitals.”  Perspectives in 

HIM  5, no. 8 (June 2008): 1–15. Available at http://perspectives. 

ahima.org. 

Servais, Cheryl E., Neil S. Olderman, and Kelly A. Trahan.  The 

Legal Health Record.  Chicago, IL: AHIMA Press, 2008. 

Walsh, Tom, et al.  Medical Records Disaster Planning, A Health 

Information Manager’s Survival Guide.  Chicago, IL: AHIMA, 

2009. 

Warner, Diana. “The EHR’s Impact on Staffing Models.” 

Journal of AHIMA  82, no. 9 (September 2011): 44–45. AHIMA  | 25 

## Prepping 

» Confirm patient name, medical record number, and 

account number on each page. This information should be 

documented on both sides of the page for best practice and 

patient safety. 

» Place all “like” document types together in chronological or 

reverse chronological order (dependent upon organizational 

policy). 

» Repair all torn or wrinkled pages. 

» Remove all staples and clips from each page. 

» If applicable, remove NCR copies and keep the originals. 

» Original documents that are not legible should be stamped to 

indicate “poor quality.” 

» Third party barcodes should be blacked out or covered to 

prevent the application from reading the barcode incorrectly. 

» Perforated forms should be torn apart for scanning or kept 

intact and oversized document settings should be used in the 

scanning process. 

- By tearing apart perforated forms, the entire batch can be 

scanned under one document size setting. 

- Some technology can sense the difference between legal size 

documents (8 ½ x 14) and letter size (8 ½ x 11) documents 

and adjust accordingly. This option should reduce the 

up-front documentation preparation time. 

- Most scanners have a maximum setting available, and the 

scanner will detect the width and length that the input of 

the scanner can accommodate. 

- Oversized documents must be scanned under the appro -

priate oversize setting. They can be scanned in the same 

batch; however, they should be placed at the beginning or 

end of a batch, and the paper size setting must be changed. 

Although scanning time is interrupted with this process, 

manual indexing can be avoided. 

- Booklets and “foldouts” (such as nurses’ flow sheets) should 

have a perforation at the “bound” or “foldout” edges for 

ease of separation into 8 ½ -by-11-inch pages during 

scanning preparation. 

- Some foldout forms have a data column on the fold. These 

forms must be redesigned so that the perforation or “cut-

out” is not on the data column. Note that a minimum inch 

(1”) “neutral zone” on either side of the perforation or “cut-

line” is recommended to ensure data is not lost. 

» White paper is recommended for all documents that will be 

scanned because white will provide the best results for bar 

code identification, optical character recognition (OCR), 

viewing, and such. 

» Shading of “bars” that contain text is not recommended 

because the text typically will not be readable after scanning. 

» If colors are required for ease of manual identification, a 

color border around the edge with a white center is recom -

mended. 

» A minimum of 20 lb. weight bond paper is recommended for 

best scanning results. 

» 24 lb. weight is recommended for double-sided forms to pre -

vent bleed-through of ink and information during scanning. 

» Do not use glue on the leading edge of a form. The edge that 

has been separated curls and will be misfed into the scanner. 

Also, the glue will build up quickly on the rollers and cause 

jamming. 

» Note that portrait docs will typically be three-hole punched 

at the top so they can be put into a medical record chart 

holder (left-hand side of landscape docs will be three-hole 

punched). 

» Holes across the top of a page could result in paper not being 

fed properly or paper jams if the holes have been ripped and 

are not taped. 

» Note potential for three-hole punch on left side of some por -

trait docs (and the tops of some landscape docs) for standard 

three-ring-binder applications. 

» When designing forms, it is important to not place informa -

tion on the “back” side of the page in the same area as the bar 

code is on the opposite side. This could bleed-through during 

scanning and cause the bar code to be unreadable on the 

scanned image. 

» Avoid small type; 8 point or larger is recommended. 

» If applicable and available, encounter or batch cover sheets 

as well as visit cover sheets for each record (visit or account) 

should be utilized: 

» Encounter or batch cover sheets will identify the batch, the 

patient and the encounter to where the scanned document 

will be indexed. 

» Visit cover sheets will identify the existence of several visits or 

encounters in one batch. 

# Best Practices: Preparing and Scanning Documentation 

# Appendix A 26  | AHIMA 

# Appendix A 

## Capture and Scanning Process 

» Always verify scanner settings before scanning pages. 

» Batches may be scanned vertically or horizontally. Remember 

to select the correct barcode orientations when scanning ver -

tically or horizontally if not using enhanced barcode recogni -

tion. If you do not select it correctly, bar-coded documents 

may not be read, resulting in the batch requiring manual 

indexing. 

» It is recommended that a batch not exceed one inch in thick -

ness, or 100 pages, to allow for timely processing of the batch 

and to reduce the amount of rescan if an error occurs. 

» Interactive scanning and document modification 

- Is used mostly for rescanning or replacing documents. 

Usually a lower speed or flat-bed type scanner to especially 

handle odd-sized documents. 

- Is recommended with the use of a smaller desktop scanner 

for loose sheet or point of service scanning because of the 

delay in the start of scanning on larger models. 

» Loose material is commonly scanned under a batch header 

sheet and is manually indexed if account number bar-coding 

is not used on forms. 

» Determining the most appropriate scanner settings can be a 

very time consuming process. It is important to create a batch 

that contains a variety of forms commonly found in a medi -

cal record at the institution. This batch can be used to test 

and modify the scanner settings to achieve the most legible 

images. 

» It has been found that EKGs are more legible if scanned on 

a low speed scanner using grey scale or color settings. New 

high-speed scanners have provided sufficient quality for 

scanned EKG images. 

» Simplex (single-sided) mode scanning should only be used if 

all the documents within the batch are set up as single-sided 

documents in the scanning software. All blank back page 

sides of the page will be ignored and deleted without requir -

ing manual intervention. If simplex mode is used on a batch 

with two-sided documents, the outcome typically results in 

having to rescan the entire batch. 

» Some scanning teams set the scanner timeout to zero so 

that it never times out, reducing the chance for unnecessary 

downtime. Scanner timeout settings can be different based 

on your scanner model. 

» If you have a jam or a timeout on the scanner, scanner 

settings should be verified. 

» Maintenance on the scanner depends on the amount of paper 

scanned in a day. To assist with high quality scans, daily tasks 

(or following each shift) should include vacuuming the 

scanner and cleaning the rollers and image guides. 

» Fly paper, alcohol free pads, a soft clean cloth, and a vacuum 

are some of the cleaning supplies you can use. It is important 

to follow the maintenance and cleaning regimens that are 

recommended by the scanner manufacturer. 

» Use antistatic mats under all scanners that stand on the floor 

directly to reduce the amount of friction generated. 

» Calibrate scanners at least daily using proper calibration 

paper. 

» Hole-punched documents periodically jam the scanner. This 

is caused by the placement of the hole on the page and how it 

passes over the scanner cameras. For that reason, some scan -

ning teams scan landscape on the clean (not punched) edge. 

» To assist the rollers in pulling one sheet at a time through the 

scanner, scan operators should fan the batch before placing it 

into the feeder. 

» It is an option to end each job, let the scanner time out after 

each batch, or continue placing batches in the scanner until 

all are scanned. Each institution must determine which is 

more efficient for the staff and environment based on the 

scanner model. 

» When scanning a batch that contains the same document 

type but different patients, it should be possible to print 

batch header sheets from the system that include the 

document type on the page. This allows the indexing team to 

select certain batches if there is a large backlog of a particular 

document type. 

» When using multiple barcodes (account, MRN, or document 

type), batch header sheets should not be needed. Proper 

barcode configurations, document type, and MRN/Visit 

persistence modes are required for accurate auto-indexing. 

» A mnemonic descriptor or inventory number may be used in 

systems that do not recognize bar codes. AHIMA  | 27 

The following are concepts related to document imaging: 

» Network connectivity:  Storage devices accessible from any 

point on a network 

» File system:  The actual logical file allocation and storage 

structure, how a database stores its information for retrieval. 

Typically optical disks required a specialized, proprietary file 

system to manage the optical platters and jukeboxes along 

with magnetic storage. 

» Hierarchical storage management:  The management of 

information through the use of multiple devices that handle 

the information at different points in its life cycle. An 

example might be to place the documents on magnetic, 

move them to optical, and later archive the optical to tape. 

» Backup and redundancy:  The mechanisms, both hardware 

and software, that keep copies of documents and system 

information to ensure data recovery upon catastrophic sys -

tem failure or data loss 

» Direct attached storage:  Magnetic storage that attaches 

directly to a server, not necessarily through a network 

» Application service provider (ASP) based storage: 

Managing documents and information via web access on 

servers and remotely located storage devices 

## Performance Implications 

Choosing a document format requires a balance between 

performance, image quality, and storage limitations. If we use 

the page sizes described above, you can expect the following 

amount of data to flow through your network. We will assume 

that we have documents that are two pages in length. 

## File Sizes 

The following is a sampling of scans performed using a desk -

top Fujitsu fi-4120C scanner. Photoshop Elements was used 

to accept the image from the scanner and encode it with the 

appropriate format. The application used to encode an image 

does not affect the actual size of the image as the calculation ei -

ther follows a precise algorithm (such as BMP) or a proprietary 

compression algorithm (such as PNG). These sizes represent a 

single-sided medical form. For multi-paged documents, take 

the file size number (below) and multiply it by the total num -

ber of pages. 

Color 

Mode 

Paper 

Size 

DPI  File 

Format 

File Size 

(KB) 

24-Bit 

Color 

8.5x11  150  JPG/M 

Quality 

345 

24-Bit 

Color 

8.5x11  150  JPG/H 

Quality 

1,090 

24-Bit 

Color 

8.5x11  100  PNG  593 

24-Bit 

Color 

8.5x11  200  PNG  1,341 

B&W  8.5x11  200  PNG  66 

B&W  8.5x11  300  PNG  127 

B&W  8.5x11  200  TIFF 

CCIITT 

G4 

45 

B&W  8.5x11  300  TIFF 

CCIITT 

G4 

95 

Software applications have limited opportunities to reduce the 

actual storage size of an image; however, they can improve or 

degrade the quality of the image. Many vendors use the VRS 

(Virtual Rescan) software published by Kofax Inc. to perform 

barcode reading and to auto-improve the document before 

the software receives it. The document is often significantly 

improved before being stored. If you compare the scanning 

results of Photoshop versus the files enhanced by Kofax VRS, 

it will be found that those documents have better quality. 

## Storage Requirement Calculations 

How do you calculate the storage requirements for a 

particular format? 

To answer this question, there is a series of calculations in 

order to estimate storage. A color bit map file format (BMP) 

size is calculated as follows: 

Scan Width  8 inches 

Scan Height  11 inches 

DPI  150 (Dots Per inch) 

Pixel Width  8 in X 150 DPI = 1,275 pixels 

Pixel Height  11 in X 150 DPI = 1,650 pixels 

Color Depth  24 Bit 

Pixel Total  1,265 X 1,650 = 2,103,750 

# Document Storage Options and File Size Calculations 

# Appendix B 28  | AHIMA 

In addition, color depth must be considered. The color depth 

above (best quality) is  24 bit . Since there are 8 bits in a byte, we 

have 3 bytes, or a color depth of a factor of 3. This means that 

it takes 3 bytes to store every pixel. To calculate the final size of 

this bit map, we multiple the pixel total, which is  2,103,750 , by 

3.  The final size of this image would be  6,311,250  or roughly 

6 megabytes (MB). This same file saved as a BMP color  16 bit 

would be roughly 4MB because the bit depth would apply a 

factor of 2 (color depth) to the total pixel count 

How do you scan and store a 150 DPI color JPEG and have a 

file size of 300KB or 300,000 bytes? 

The answer is compression. The JPEG image format compress -

es the image pixels by combining like pixel colors and “remem -

bering” where they go. The higher the compression ratio, the 

smaller the size but more data is removed. So, if you started 

out with  6,311,250  bytes and reduced it down to  300,000  then 

you effectively removed  6,011,250  bytes of data. When you are 

working with photographs, compression is often easy because 

there are so many like colors and repeatable patterns. Scanning 

a text-based document, then storing it in JPEG format some -

times proves to be problematic because of the data loss and 

precision required. If a person was reading a glucose level of 

190  as  100 , that might be a significant problem for clinical care 

or medical research. 

When saving to a JPEG file format, select the compression 

factor to apply. Most software applications display the choice as 

Low , Medium  and  High  with degrees of precision in between 

each category. 

Every image format uses a different compression mechanism. 

From an industry perspective,  TIFF  with  G4  compression 

or  PNG  is recommended for text-based documents.  JPG  is 

recommended for photographic images. 

It is important to note in the following chart that the file sizes 

are per page. Multiply the individual page size by the number 

of pages in the document to determine total storage space 

required. 

Color  Format 

DPI 

DPI  Page Size 

(KB) 

SAN size 

for 10MM 

Pages 

B&W  PNG  200  50  0.5 TB 

B&W  PNG  300  100  1 TB 

Color24  PNG  150  650  6 TB 

Color24  PNG  200  1,481  14 TB 

Color24  JPG/6  150  275  2.5 TB 

Color24  JPG/8  150  350  3.3 TB 

Color24  JPG/12  150  830  8 TB 

B&W  PNG  200  50  0.5 TB 

# Appendix B AHIMA  | 29 

## Code 39 Supports the Following Characters: 

» Twenty-six uppercase letters (A through Z) 

» Ten digits (0 through 9) 

» Seven special characters: minus sign (-), period (.), dollar 

sign ($), forward slash mark (/), plus sign (+), percent sign 

(%), and space ( ) 

» Start and stop characters, represented by an asterisk (*) 

## Code 39 Is in the Following Format: 

» A leading “quiet” (blank) zone 

» The start character (*) 

» Data characters, with characters separated by an 

inter-character gap (blank space) 

» The stop character (*) 

» A trailing “quiet” (blank) zone 

## Two-dimensional (2D) Matrix Barcode: 

» Encodes text or raw data in a pattern of black and white 

square modules 

» Usual data size is from a few bytes up to 2 kilobytes. 

» By adding error correction codes (according to the ECC200 

standard) the symbols can be read even if they are partially 

damaged. 

» Technical Data 

- Normative standards: The normative standards for the Data 

Matrix barcode symbology are called ISO/IEC 16022:2000 

and ISO/IEC 24720:2006 (ISO International Standard). 

- DataMatrix data capacity: A single DataMatrix symbol can 

theoretically hold up to 3116 digits, 2335 alphanumeric 

characters, or 1556 bytes. Due to internal data compression 

algorithms the exact data capacity depends on the struc -

ture of the data to be encoded. The maximum Data Matrix 

capacity is also influenced by available printing space and 

the printer resolution. 

- The default character set is Latin-1 or ANSI ASCII (equiva -

lent to ECI 000003). 

- Data Matrix supports the ‘Structured Append’ feature. Up 

to 16 DataMatrix symbols can be concatenated (linked). 

If a scanner or decoder supports this feature, it returns the 

concatenated data content in the correct order. 

- Data Matrix printing quality: To optimize barcode quality a 

DataMatrix symbol should not be printed with dots smaller 

than 4 to 5 device pixels. 

## Bar Code Content 

If standard forms are currently identified using a numeric 

or alphanumeric character string (such as MC1234), then 

configure the imaging bar code using that same numeric or 

alphanumeric string. 

Bar codes can be used to identify the document or encounter 

number. 

## Placement of Bar Codes on Forms 

When determining bar code placement on a form, it is 

important to consider the location of any addressographs or 

stick-on labels that may be applied to each document type. 

Also, the bar code may be preprinted on a form or printed on 

an adhesive-backed label that is manually applied to the form 

prior to scanning. There should be one bar code per form, and 

it should be placed in an area with the proper leading and 

trailing quiet zones as previously described. If the form’s 

corners will be susceptible to wear, curling, fraying, or tearing, 

placement in these areas should be avoided. 

» A unique bar code is recommended for the front page of 

every document that will be scanned and indexed. This means 

- A unique bar code must be on the front side of a duplex 

document (required to ensure both sides [image] are 

properly indexed in the correct page order). 

- A unique bar code must be on the front side of a multi-page 

document (required to ensure all sides are properly 

indexed). Length of document is determined by a setup value. 

- A bar code is not required on the back (“ blank” ) side of 

simplex documents, as these pages may be scanned in a 

batch that is being scanned in duplex mode, but they will 

not be indexed. 

- All bar codes should be oriented to the same direction, 

either parallel to the direction that the paper travels or 

perpendicular. This will make scanning and reading of the 

bar codes more efficient and consistent. 

The bar code must be surrounded on all sides (above, below, to 

the left, and to the right) by at least 0.25 inches of blank or clear 

space. This blank space comprises the leading and trailing “quiet” 

zones discussed in the preceding section of this document. 

Print sample bar-coded forms to use for testing. If the location 

of the bar code is causing difficulty, reposition it. Each form 

should be scanned 30 to 50 times to test for a successful read -

ing. Only when you are satisfied that a code and orientation is 

correct, and has been successfully tested multiple times, should 

you conduct a full form redesign and printing. 

# Bar Code Information and Guidelines 

# Appendix C 30  | AHIMA 

# Appendix D 

Prepping 

Skill Set Traits  » Quick hand-eye coordination 

» The ability to detect errors, locate certain information on any type of document, and quickly 

organize them by alphabetical or chronological order without error 

Level  » Entry level 

» Prepares documents for scanning into the electronic document management system. Examines 

pages and verifies patient identification on each page. 

Education  » High school graduate or equivalent with GED 

Experience  » Experience in health information management department preferred 

» Good oral communication skills 

» Basic computer skills preferred 

Required Skills  » Knowledge of health record format and content for all visit types 

» Ability to examine the record and verify patient identification 

» Ability to examine a form and determine its proper placement within the record 

» Ability to identify nonstandard forms and determine action required 

» Ability to navigate the patient registration system 

» Ability to push or lift up to 30 pounds 

» Detail oriented 

» Ability to evaluate and process a certain volume of documents per hour (set forth by organization) AHIMA  | 31 

# Appendix D 

Prepping 

Core Competencies  » Verify the chart remains in the appropriate order. 

» Check that documents contain appropriate patient identification (Account Number, MRN or Last 

Name, First Name). 

» Remove any interfaced or electronically generated documents (those that do not contain changes 

or hand-written notes added), per defined document rules determined during the implementation 

process. 

» Accurately assign index as outlined in the Document Matrix. 

» Remove any remaining staples, paper clips, and other binding materials from all pages. 

» Repair tears, holes and rough edges with transparent tape. 

» Put tape over sticky materials. 

» Unfold bent corners, and straighten curled edges. 

» For any documents on card stock or manila, such as Kardex or ambulance run sheets, make a photo -

copy before scanning. 

» Divider tabs or stickers that may “hang” over the edge of the document may be cut off, per defined 

document rules determined during the implementation process. 

» Duplicate copies will be identified as trash or ‟not to be scanned.” Staff will follow established proce -

dures for these documents, typically either placing in shred bin or at back of chart. 

» Mount and tape down any sheets less than 8.5 by 11 inches on an 8.5-by-11-inch sheet. 

» For sheets with rhythm strips or other mounted documents, tape down the top of the strip so it 

does not catch in the automatic document feeder (if you will be scanning in “Portrait” mode). 

» Perforate and number multipage forms into single pages so as not to destroy any information. 

» Documents that are of poor quality and may not scan well will be marked with a Poor Quality 

Original (“PQO”) stamp. 

» Verify 100 percent of patient name, MRN, and account number at the start of every chart and on 

every page in the record, front and back. 

» Verify 100 percent of episode or encounter numbers at the start of every visit. 

» Provide 100 percent quality check for proper patient identification and document irregularities. 

» Arrange multipage documents in date order, either chronological or reverse chronological, per 

department guidelines. 

» Ensure all pages are in the same proper orientation. 

» If a document is identified as likely to result in poor image quality once scanned, photocopy the 

document, adjusting the copy contrast (lightness and darkness). This may help improve the quality 

of the scanned image. If improvement is not noted, follow departmental guidelines for processing 

poor-quality originals. 

» Once all documents are prepped for scanning, clip them together, and place them at the front of 

the folder. Set them aside until you are ready to deliver them to the scanning staff. Segregation 

of these documents in the folder allows all of the record to stay together (that is, in the patient’s 

folder), and the scanning staff can select only the part of the record that is to be scanned. 32  | AHIMA 

Scanning 

Skill Set Traits  » Quick hand-eye coordination 

» Ability to read moving objects and if possible, have experience with scanning equipment 

Level  » Entry level 

» Scans documents into the electronic document management system. Examines pages and 

verifies patient identification on each page. Appropriately batches documents. Maintains 

scanning equipment 

Education  » High school graduate or equivalent with GED 

Experience  » Experience in health information management department preferred 

» Good oral communication skills 

» Basic computer skills preferred 

Required Skills  » Knowledge of health record format and content for all visit types 

» Ability to examine the record and verify patient identification 

» Ability to examine standard and nonstandard forms and determine their appropriateness for 

inclusion in the health record 

» Ability to perform troubleshooting, routine maintenance, and adjust settings on the scanning 

equipment 

» Ability to perform computer functions 

» Good hand-eye coordination 

» Good verbal communication skills 

» Ability to push or lift up to 30 pounds 

» Detail oriented 

» Ability to evaluate and process a certain volume of documents per hour (set forth by organization) 

# Appendix E AHIMA  | 33 

# Appendix E 

Scanning 

Core Competencies  » Perform daily maintenance of the scanner 

» Calibrate the scanner for proper image quality 

» “Fan” the stack of documents to be scanned in order to make sure the documents separate easily 

and that any previous hole punches or stapled pages do not stick together. Purpose: reduce the 

number of automatic document feeder misfeeds. 

» Once records are scanned, remove them from the scanner’s out tray. Begin process of verifying the 

quality and accuracy of the scans. With the records face-up, view the hard copy and the scanned 

image to confirm all images can be read and all pages were captured. This can be done by flipping 

through the hard copies as you verify each image, page by page. Purpose: Reduce the number of 

rescans as a result of poor image quality or skipped pages. 

» As images are reviewed, change the rotation, switch sides, and the like, as needed. For example, 

documents that are typically viewed in “landscape” orientation should be rotated so they pres -

ent to the end user in landscape mode. If a document was sent through the scanner so that the 

back page was scanned as the front page, switch sides to put the images in the appropriate order. 

Purpose: Improve the readability and use of the images by the end user. 

» If an image is identified as poor quality, adjust the scan sensitivity or use the copy machine to 

enhance the quality of the document to be scanned. Once the scan sensitivity is changed or the 

document is enhanced via the copy machine, re-place the image. Purpose: Reduce the number of 

records returned for rescan as a result of poor image quality. 

» Once initial quality review has been completed, transfer the folder to Assign Document ID. 

Clip or bundle the hard-copy pages together and forward them for document ID assignment. 

Purpose: The process of document ID assignment will provide a second review to identify 

issues with image quality or skipped pages. The hard-copy record must be available in order to 

accomplish this. 34  | AHIMA 

# Appendix F 

Indexing 

Skill Set Traits  » Able to identify objects and detect errors quickly 

» Good computer skills 

» Proficient with 10-key entry and typing 

Level  » Intermediate level 

» Manually indexes documents to the correct level as established by facility policy. Minimizes 

duplicate records and overlap entries. Verifies data integrity. Coordinates information with master 

patient index, patient registration modules, and various other ancillary departments and modules 

Education  » High school graduate or equivalent with GED 

» Associate degree: RHIT preferred 

Experience  » Experience in health information management department preferred 

» Good oral communication skills 

» Basic computer skills preferred 

Required Skills  » Knowledge of medical record format and content for all patient records 

» Competent knowledge and understanding of anatomy 

» Competent knowledge of medical terminology 

» Ability to review record and verify patient identification 

» Strong computer skills 

» Good verbal, written, and computer communication skills 

» Ability to perform job function and make decisions without direct supervision 

» Detail oriented 

» Ability to evaluate and process a certain volume (encounters, sections, or documents) per hour 

(set forth by organization) 

» Ability to interact with customers AHIMA  | 35 

# Appendix F 

Indexing 

Core Competencies  » Monitor the manual indexing queue of unassigned images. 

» Prioritize the batches in the queue and retrieve the batches for processing. 

» Confirm that all records ready for indexing have been received. 

» Review each electronic image within the batch. Compare with hard copy to confirm image 

quality, appropriate order and appropriate rotation. 

» Determine the correct patient name, medical record number, account number, document type, 

or section (if appropriate). 

» Index the image (encounter, section, or document) appropriately by required patient data 

elements according to facility specific guidelines. 

» Review and determine if image should be 

- Added as a new document to an existing record 

- Replacing a page within an existing record 

- Deleted 

» Bar code recognition of the client’s documents 

» Optical mark recognition 

» Advanced forms recognition 

» Automated forms classification 

» Manual key entry of data 

» 100 percent Quality Review of indexing parameters and patient identification 

» Delete episodes when applicable. 

» Add episodes when appropriate. 

» Revise episodes when appropriate. 

» Relocate episode when appropriate. 

» Return for re-scan any images not appropriate for permanent storage. 36  | AHIMA 

# Appendix G 

Review and Quality Control 

Skill Set Traits  » Able to identify objects and detect errors quickly 

» Good computer skills 

» Proficient with 10-key entry and typing 

Level  » Intermediate level 

» Reviews the electronic document management system and records contained within for 

appropriate image quality and indexing 

Education  » Associate degree: RHIT preferred 

» High school graduate or equivalent with GED 

Experience  » Minimum of three years HIM experience (mandatory) or associate degree: RHIT 

» Good oral and written communication skills 

» Basic computer skills 

Required Skills  » Knowledge of medical record format and content for all patient records 

» Competent knowledge and understanding of anatomy 

» Competent knowledge of medical terminology 

» Ability to review record and verify patient identification 

» Strong computer skills 

» Good verbal, written, and computer communication skills 

» Ability to perform job function and make decisions without direct supervision 

» Detail oriented 

» Ability to evaluate and process a certain volume (encounters, sections, or documents) per hour 

(set forth by organization) 

» Ability to interact with customers AHIMA  | 37 

# Appendix G 

Review and Quality Control 

Core Competencies  » Determine the readiness of the batch for the quality control process 

» Locate the electronic document for verification against the paper batch 

» Review each image in the batch and verify the following: 

- Correct patient name and account level 

- Proper indexing level (encounter, section, or document) 

- Image quality (readable, orientation, multiple sides, double-feeds, etc.) 

» For each page scanned or indexed with errors 

- Rearrange out of order images within the electronic document; 

- Relocate electronic images that are incorrectly filed in another document; 

- Relocate electronic images or documents that are incorrectly filed in an encounter; 

- Replace electronic images that have unacceptable image quality or have been updated; and 

- Modify the indexing as appropriate. 38  | AHIMA 

# Document Management System (DMS) and Electronic Health Record (EHR) 

# Points of Integration 

The table below displays some important 

technical considerations for integrating 

a document management system (DMS) 

with the electronic health record (EHR). 

It is organized by function and area of 

administration. 

The integration points are grouped by 

functionality and by the organizational 

area responsible for building, imple -

menting, or administrating them. Some 

integration points have been duplicated 

across administrative areas to indi -

cate the need for inter-organizational 

coordination or to suggest the most ap -

propriate administrator(s) to build and 

monitor a particular function. However, 

this will vary from organization to orga -

nization. 

It should be noted that the integration 

points listed are not intended to be an 

exhaustive list, but rather a general set 

of high-level considerations that an 

organization could use to coordinate 

an implementation plan or an ongoing 

maintenance plan for most EHR/DMS 

system configurations. 

# Appendix H 

continued on pages 39 AHIMA  | 39 

# DMS and EHR Points of Integration (cont.) 

# Appendix H 

> continued on pages 40
> Functions
> Areas of
> Administration
> Interfaces/HL7
> Messaging  Scanning
> Document,
> Note and
> Transcription Type
> Development and
> Reconcilliation
> HIM Chart
> Completion
> Viewing Scanned
> Documents
> Release of
> Information
> IT/Network/
> Desktop/
> Hardware
> Administration
> » Identify and
> map all inbound
> and outbound
> message types
> for ADT and
> MDM messages
> in interfaces
> middleware
> » Consider needs
> for order-level
> scanning mes -
> sages (if used)
> » Consider merge,
> unmerge, and
> overlay messages
> for MPI
> reconciliation
> » User Active
> Directory setup
> (if required by
> system)
> » Consider client/
> workstation vs.
> Citrix deploy -
> ment approaches
> » Scanner drivers
> set up/push
> » Imaging software
> and associated.
> files package set
> up and push
> » Consider PC
> performance
> requirements
> » Digital photo
> capture set up (if
> supported)
> » Consider
> support or help
> desk needs
> » Consider
> downtime/
> DR measures for
> scanning and
> hardware main -
> tenance
> » Set up and verify
> translation (or
> similar) tables
> » Provider or HIM
> user security or
> Active Direc -
> tory set up (if
> required by
> system)
> » Citrix server set
> up and replica -
> tion
> » Workstation
> profile set up
> » User security/
> active directory
> build (if required
> by DMS)
> » Consider image
> rendering latency
> times
> » Consider PC
> vs. thin client
> performance
> » Consider down -
> time or DR
> measures for
> viewing scans
> » Print server con -
> figuration/setup
> » Consider how
> print files will be
> saved/retrieved
> on network
> drives
> » User security/
> active
> directory build
> (if required by
> DMS)

40  | AHIMA 

# Appendix H 

> Functions
> Areas of
> Administration
> Interfaces/HL7
> Messaging  Scanning
> Document,
> Note and
> Transcription Type
> Development and
> Reconcilliation
> HIM Chart
> Completion
> Viewing Scanned
> Documents
> Release of
> Information
> EHR
> Administration
> » Identify/map all
> inbound,
> outbound mes -
> sage types for
> ADT and MDM
> messages for
> EHR integration
> and build
> » Consider ap -
> propriate patient
> encounter types
> and statuses used
> » Determine MPI
> reconciliation
> workflow
> » Consider setup
> needed for
> scanning if
> initiated from
> EHR (custom
> buttons,
> executable
> paths, API
> configuration,
> .ini, .xml files,
> etc.)
> » Build/set up of
> document,
> transcription
> and note types
> » Consider set up,
> mapping and
> placement of
> scanned
> document
> links in
> clinical views
> » Build/set up of
> document,
> transcription
> and note types
> » Consider set up,
> mapping and
> placement
> of scanned
> document links
> in clinical views
> » User security
> setup
> » Verify set up
> and mapping
> of scanned
> document links
> in clinical views
> » Print server
> configuration/
> setup
> » Determine
> scanned
> document type
> inclusion/
> exclusion criteria
> » User security set
> up

# DMS and EHR Points of Integration (cont.) continued on pages 41 AHIMA  | 41 

# Appendix H 

> Functions
> Areas of
> Administration
> Interfaces/HL7
> Messaging  Scanning
> Document,
> Note and
> Transcription Type
> Development and
> Reconcilliation
> HIM Chart
> Completion
> Viewing Scanned
> Documents
> Release of
> Information
> Document
> Management
> System
> Administration
> » Identify and map
> all inbound and
> outbound
> message types
> for ADT and
> MDM messages
> for DMS build
> » Consider needs
> for
> order-level
> scanning
> messages (if
> used)
> » Consider merge/
> unmerge/overlay
> messages for
> MPI reconcili -
> ation
> » Build provider
> and HIM user
> security that
> supports AD and
> EHR set up
> » Consider client/
> workstation vs.
> Citrix deploy -
> ment
> approaches
> » Consider use and
> need for web-
> based
> approaches
> » Scanner drivers
> set up
> » Setup for digital
> photo capture
> setup (if
> supported)
> » Downtime,
> system upgrade,
> update, and
> ongoing
> maintenance
> » Build document
> types and related
> security as re -
> quired for DMS
> to integrate with
> EHR
> » Provider and
> HIM user secu -
> rity that supports
> AD/EHR/DMS
> set up
> » Provider flat file
> build and ongo -
> ing maintenance
> » Document type
> and note type
> set up
> » DMS deficien -
> cies set up that
> integrates with
> EHR set up
> » Sign or decline
> workflow to inte -
> grate with EHR
> » User security set
> up that supports
> AD/EHR/DMS
> needs
> » Consider use/
> need for
> web-based
> approaches
> » Scanned docu -
> ment type
> inclusion/
> exclusion criteria
> » User security
> set up

# DMS and EHR Points of Integration (cont.)
